



THE CITY OF THE DANCING LIGHTS
REPORT ON THE ANNUAL FESTIVAL OF THE ARTS

by Frank Roger



       It has been an exceptionally good year, but don't we say
that every time as we return from the vari©colored, multi©layered
cross©cultural extravaganza the Annual Festival of the Arts has
become? Once again we have seen exciting new trends, invigorating
new approaches, even stunning new art forms. Minimalist offerings
(such as Akira Yamamoto's "Smallest Desert in the Known
Universe", comprised of four minute grains of sand and only
visible through a microscope) were counterbalanced with
productions of mega©proportions too large to fit into the
Festival Center (such as the brilliantly conceived and dazzlingly
choreographed ballet of blizzards and hail©storms and tropical
rain©showers created by Roberta N'komo, images of which were
shown in the Center's special theater).
        As was generally expected, the decline of Virtual Reality
art continued. This art form may well be on its way toward total
obsolescence, and most artists working in this area until recent
years seem to have channeled their artistic ambitions into other
forms of expression. Melinda DaSilva is a case in point. She used
to be Brazil's most original and prolific VR artist, flooding the
market with high©intensity, gut©wrenching, skull©splitting VR
art. "It's dead," she told me at one of the Festival's countless
parties, "forget all that old stuff of mine. I've entered a new
phase in my career, and I refuse to look back. I'm into sculpting
emotions now." Some of her recent work was demonstrated at the
Festival, and I must say it's quite gripping stuff. Her "emotionªsculptures" are painstakingly concocted chemical substances,
injected into the bloodstream, allowing the user (or "beholder",
as Melinda puts it) to experience a head©spinning blend of
emotions. The impact on one's mind and soul can be ecstatic,
devastating or even permanently mind©altering. Two fellow
journalists literally succumbed to her art, and Melinda referred
to their deaths as "a fitting tribute to my artistic rebirth, a
richly symbolic act in praise of my new approach, rising phoenixªlike from the ashes of my former way of self©expression."
     As one art form is disappearing into oblivion, another seems
to be enjoying an unexpected revival. One of the most remarkable
new trends, indeed, is the surprising resurgence of an art form
considered dead and buried : literature. Prose printed on oldªfashioned paper and assembled into books, to be read by turning
page after page by hand. The most prominent flag©carrier of this
revivalist movement, George MacLannan, conceded to me during his
"Publisher's Party" (another defunct tradition of bygone days
brought back to life) that there is no true audience for this
type of art anymore, as there are no traditional "readers" left.
"But this book of mine," he explained, "must be viewed as a
symbolical statement rather than some artsy mannerist joke. Art
has been lifted from its cultural niche and transferred to the
world of commerce. All too often these days art is being
consumed, like any other type of product. I wanted my book to tie
in with this deplorable situation, wanted it to be used by
consumers rather than purchased by collectors or "read", so the
book was given an expiry date. After this date the printed text
begins to fade away and the book slowly decomposes into dust.
This way I present art as an ephemeral consumerist need. Think
about it. But above all, enjoy the party!"
     The creations of the twin brothers Jorge and Luis Casares y
Ramirez have become a mainstay of the Festival, and once again
both of them were represented with recent works.
       Jorge Casares y Ramirez, the oldest by three seconds (as he
keeps repeating in every press conference), had chosen his "Human
Race Against Time" for this year's edition, a remarkable blend of
sports and modern ballet the artist himself labels "chronoªchoreography". It consists of twenty©four men (each representing
an hour of the day) running an eight©shaped circuit (representing
the infinity of time) continuously, with interruptions for sleep
and meals only. At least sixteen of them (representing the
average person's regular active hours) are running together at
all times. These twenty©four actors (performers? participants?)
have signed very unusual contracts, to say the least. They are
contractually bound to run the circuit until they wear out, grow
ill or become too old, in which case their sons or grandsons are
to take their place. The contract extends to twenty©four
generations, so that this piece of art is destined to last for a
considerable length of time. The twenty©four families were picked
from different races and colors, in an effort to represent
mankind in all its diversity. The runners, and their future
generations, are personal property of the artist, who literally
"bought" them. "We all could use the money we were paid," one of
the runners told me in a short interview I managed to arrange
during one of his breaks. "Most of us come from poor countries,
and we all had run up insurmountable debts that we never could
have paid off. Jorge's contract relieves us from all that,
meaning he'll cover our debts in return for this job and lifeªlong support of us and our families. You could say it was the
only way out for us. This was an offer we simply couldn't refuse.
It's hard work and we're like tied up forever, but at least we've
left the slums behind and lives without hope. We've got financial
security now. And our wives and kids are fed." It appears these
people, perhaps understandably, fail to see themselves as an
integral part of an important work of art which is a brilliantly
spot©on commentary on the human condition in these ultra©hectic
times, marking the end of a turbulent period in mankind's history
as well as the dawning of a new era, opening up haunting vistas
and yielding chilling intimations about what the future has in
store for us.
  Jorge's younger brother Luis never failed to surprise
critics and audiences with his architectural collages, and this
year's entry of his ("The Rise and Fall of Mankind") is no
exception. If anything his scope has become more encompassing,
his vision more awe©inspiring, his conceptualization more boldly
daring. Try to picture before your mind's eye an intricately
conceived and constructed mosaic of snapshots of world history.
The gates of Santiago de Compostella's cathedral swing wide open
to reveal a starving Third World child, its hand eagerly reaching
out, its swollen belly and huge staring eyes caught in a
blindingly white spotlight. The background darkens, as all at
once a mushroom©shaped cloud billows up, and both the cathedral
and the child are blown to smithereens. As the radioactive dust
settles, a radiation©scarred family becomes dimly visible,
scurrying among the rubble, desperately eking out a miserable
existence, clinging to lives barely worth living. The gray sky
turns blue and then black, craters appear in the barren ground,
the blue disc of the earth winks into existence, pouring vivid
light onto what has now become the lunar landscape, and two
astronauts come jumping into view. One of them is about to plant
the American flag he is clutching, claiming the moon for his
country, an act of patriotism carried out many miles away from
the nation that gave rise to and nurtured those feelings. A
guerrilla fighter in a tattered green uniform darts from behind a
rock and fires at one of the astronauts. The victim's spacesuit
is punctured, the air escapes and as decompression follows the
man dies in a hideous shower of blood and bones. More soldiers in
a variety of uniforms appear from all around and sheer carnage
ensues, transforming the moonscape into a corpse©strewn
battlefield. The sky turns blue again, sunlight floods the scene,
signalling that we're back on earth. From the mound of dead
bodies a slender green stem arises, and in one gracious movement
a bright©red rose springs into full bloom, majestically
dominating the landscape. Then its color slowly fades as the rose
metamorphoses into a poppy, which quickly crumbles into dust. The
dust actually turns out to be opium, and drug©users come rushing
towards it, eager to grab handfuls of their deadly wonder©stuff.
One by one the junkies drop to the ground, lifeless, as the scene
around them changes into the smoldering, lava©covered ruins of
Pompeii. A few more transformations occur in rapid succession :
the barracks of Auschwitz appear for a few seconds, to be
replaced by the library of Alexandria, being set on fire by
religious fanatics, the Taj Mahal, the Hollywood film studios,
ransacked by raging hordes of moral purists, and the Vatican,
bombed during the Great Religious Wars of the New Millennium.
From the smoking debris the cathedral of Santiago rises
triumphantly, and the whole cycle starts all over again.
       This mind©boggling, senses©shattering kaleidoscope is
produced in a fascinating way : partly it is made with authentic,
physical props, combined with a variety of holograms, and
complemented by a well©balanced mixture of hallucinogenic
chemicals pumped into the air of the presentation hall. As the
artist considers the exact composition of his work, i.e. which
elements are to be attributed to holograms, hallucinogenic
chemicals or physical objects, to be a professional secret, we
can only contemplate it and marvel at its deeply resounding,
richly©textured meaning, and try to grasp its myriad allusions
and connotations and hidden meanings. This work, for sure, will
allow for as many interpretations as there will be viewers.
    As usual the organising committee selected a very special
work of art for the crowning event of the Festival's closing
ceremony. Once again they stuck to tradition and kept the exact
nature of this piááce de ráásistance secret until its presentation.
To our surprise we were asked to board a zeppelin, and once
aboard we were told we would be presented with Michael d'Angelo's
newest creation, "The City Of The Dancing Lights", while hovering
over San Francisco. D'Angelo is well©known for his extravagant
art, and the mere fact that his latest effort could not be
presented at the Festival Center itself left us intrigued and
expecting something truly spectacular.
 The sun was setting as we arrived in San Francisco, tinting
the clouds coming in from the ocean orange and copper, colors
constantly changing hue as nightfall approached, as if nature's
forces had decided to enrich the Festival with their own artistic
endeavors, in competition with the puny humans struggling with
their comparatively primitive material. As the zeppelin hung
motionless over Union Square, we were provided with a splendid
view of the city sprawling beneath our feet, a tapestry of lights
fighting back the darkness coming from above. At our left we
could see the Golden Gate Bridge, at our right the Oakland Bay
Bridge, both glimmering with pinpoints of light, the heavy
traffic contributing a patchwork of red and white lights
streaking past to the overall picture. The city's major hotels,
towering light©encrusted columns, rose up toward us as if eager
to grab us and pull us down. Then the Festival committee's
chairman finally decided to address us.
        "We hope that you have enjoyed what you have witnessed so
far," he said, "and we know for a fact that all that will pale
into insignificance next to what you are about to experience.
D'Angelo is not simply offering a major contribution to modern
art here. He is modern art. "The City Of The Dancing Lights" will
set new standards. Everything that follows will be judged against
it for years to come. You who are about to behold this
masterpiece cannot possibly realize how privileged you are in
having been selected. In only a few moments everything will be
disclosed to you. Be prepared for the truly sensational." He
gestured, and the lights were dimmed. "I hope to see you all
again at next year's Festival," he concluded.
  We all looked down at the by now night©enshrouded city
beneath us. For a moment nothing happened. Silence hung heavily
among us. Only our agitated breathing could be heard. Then
d'Angelo's creation was finally unveiled, step by carefully
measured step. Understanding dawned. We peered outside, afraid to
miss the smallest of details. A new chapter in the history of art
was being written in our very presence.
        It began with small tremors, sending faint ripples across
the cityscape. It appeared as if this modest overture to the
undoubtedly grand proceedings went unnoticed by the city's
unsuspecting population. Not one single light winked out of
existence. Not one car seemed to do so much as slow down. People
didn't yet realize they were to participate in a major work of
art. The second set of tremors was more powerful, without
therefore causing any serious damage. Only this time there were
some visually attractive reactions. On the two bridges, and in
various parts of downtown San Francisco, a large number of
drivers slowed down or stopped, resulting in a bonfire of bright
red braking lights flaring up. As a number of lights, scattered
all over the city, went out, an equal number were switched on,
perhaps by people already asleep who were now rising from their
slumber, wondering what was going on, or, perhaps more likely, as
emergency back©up systems were activated.
      At that point d'Angelo's carefully orchestrated choreography
of explosives embedded in key locations under the city being
detonated slipped into full gear. Our appetite had been
sufficiently whetted. The main course was about to be served.
After a minute©long interlude, which seemed to last hours to us
sensation©starved spectators, the first serious quake shook the
city on its foundations. Thrilled and breathless with
anticipation, we watched as several segments of the Oakland Bay
Bridge collapsed, crushing a number of cars in the process, and
some shabbier buildings could be seen to topple. Now the city
came truly alive. Panic finally reared its ugly head. In some
districts the lights went out, whereas in others small explosions
occurred and buildings erupted into flames, illuminating the
areas of interest. All traffic came to a standstill. Screaming
and yelling crowds slowly started to fill the streets and
squares.
       The dust had barely settled as three short but powerful
quakes hit the city in rapid succession. The screams of the
crowds thronging the streets, desperately looking for a shelter
from the seismic onslaught, were drowned by the rumblings of
explosions and collapsing houses. Virtually all artificial
lighting had disappeared from view now, but the rapidly
increasing number of fires provided sufficient illumination for
us to follow how the situation was evolving. The thought crossed
my mind that this replacement of the artificial by the natural
might symbolize the return to a more primitive state in mankind's
evolution, expressing perhaps d'Angelo's cyclical view of
history. The crazed hordes clogging the streets in a frenzy of
panic©ridden despair could then be viewed as man's return to
barbarism, accompanying or possibly mirroring the return to the
forefront of nature's forces. D'Angelo had pressed the rewind
button of mankind's history, making the city and its inhabitants
revert to their earlier stages.
        A volley of "oohs" and "aahs" went up all around me as,
directly beneath our feet, Macy's crumbled into ruins. Somewhat
further down, several buildings along Market Street had also
succumbed to the quakes. Dust was billowing up, partly obscuring
the orange and red flames increasing in size and numbers
everywhere. Ironically enough, the tall columns of the major
hotels and the Financial district's skyscrapers behind us were
still standing. Was this part of d'Angelo's scheme? Was he trying
to indicate that ultimately technology would provide the key to
survival, that man, if only he chose the right way, could emerge
victorious from this battle? In a certain sense, this would echo
interpretations given by knowledgeable critics to other recent
works by the same artist, but then again d'Angelo has been known
to veer off in unexpected directions on more than one occasion,
intentionally misleading critics and audiences alike, and
coconsuming
obsession, dominating my every move, my every thought. However, I
knew very well I could only turn this obsessive desire into hard
reality if I was granted another holiday. I would have to bide my
time until that moment.
        And so I did. As time went by, my obsession took on
pathological proportions. My work suffered from it. I could
barely think rationally, could scarcely function normally.
     When I was finally granted some days off, I welcomed them as
a gift from heaven. I would at last be able to devote my time
exclusively to my obsessive love for Conchita.
 I hurried to the RelaxaTravel agency where I had booked my
first trip, leafed frantically through their brochures, but to my
utter dismay I found no reference to La Isla de San Felipe.
Fighting off the feeling of oncoming doom, I turned to the man
sitting behind the desk (too bad the gorgeous blonde wasn't
working today © although she was no match for Conchita anyway)
and told him my problem.
       "I'd like to book a trip to La Isla de San Felipe," I said.
"The Tropicana Hotel. I've been there a few months ago and I'm
aching to get back. I can't seem to find it in this brochure,
though."
       "Let me see," the man said. "These are our Fall and Winter
holidays. They're slightly different from the Summer selections.
When did you book that earlier trip of yours? Did you book it
through us? And what was your name again? Just a moment, please."
The man leafed through some papers, consulted his computer
database, then turned to face me again.
        "I'm afraid I can't seem to find a reference to either this
San Felipe island or your earlier booking, mr. Chapman. Of course
we don't keep our records indefinitely, and we may choose to
alter our selections for a variety of reasons. If a certain hotel
or island or region is booked by only a handful of customers,
we're likely to drop it from our roster. If we've had problems
with a particular hotel on more than one occasion, we'll be
tempted to discontinue our©©"
     "I understand all that," I interrupted him angrily, feeling
anger and frustration welling up. I hadn't come here to discuss
the intricacies of company policy. "Look. Even if San Felipe is
no longer featured in your current brochure, you must at least
remember its name, right?"
     "I'm new here, mr. Chapman. I'm afraid I'm not familiar with
that place."
   I sighed, fighting down an urge to punch this punk in the
nose. "When I came to book this earlier trip, I was served by a
blonde woman. Do you by any chance happen to know her?"
        "Oh, yes," the man said, nodding. "That must have been miss
Lifeson. She no longer works here. She left soon after I got this
job." There was silence for a few moments. Then the man spread
his hands wide, and said apologetically, "I'm afraid I can't
help you, mr. Chapman."
        "No, I don't think you can," I admitted, and left the
RelaxaTravel office. I tried all the other travel agencies in
town, but nobody seemed to have heard of La Isla de San Felipe or
the Cadena Turquesa Archipelago for that matter. Needless to say,
I was getting desperate.
       In a last©ditch effort to find a way to get back to Conchita
I went to Westport's public library, and consulted maps, atlasses
and encyclopedias. I didn't find as much as one single reference
to La Isla de San Felipe. The name was not featured in any
index. I could not locate the island or the archipelago it was
part of on any map, although I must admit there seemed to be no
really detailed maps of the Caribbean Sea and its plethora of
archipelagoes, islands and islets. Maybe San Felipe was simply
too small, too unimportant, too insignificant to be featured in
general reference works. Maybe there was a very simple
explanation for all this. There probably was no reason to erupt
into a bout of hysteria or to give in to sheer madness.
        There was no reason to become paranoid, I kept telling
myself. Nobody had said that 




THE KILLER CLAUSE

by Frank Roger



      "This had better be of tremendous importance," Rough Diamond
said to the CEO of his record company, facing him sternly from
behind the impressive mahogany desk. In thought, he added, I can
imagine a lot of things infinitely more fun than sitting here in
your ultra©mega©posh office and listening to you. For instance,
pal, I could be devoting my attention exclusively to the two
incredibly well©shaped chicks in my hotel room who were so
determined to generously share their gorgeous shapes with me.
Hungry lips, fluttering eyelashes, heaving bosoms... and those
would merely be the starters. Even simple post©gig parties would
be more fun than sitting here, or signing autographs to starªstricken fans, or...
      "I can see you're lost in thought," the man in the threeªpiece suit said. "Let me convince you that there were pertinent
reasons for me to arrange this meeting."
       Rough Diamond nodded. He would listen to what the man had to
say and then get back to business in his hotel room.
   "I'm not sure if you're aware of clause 17 of your contract.
I'd like to know about the status of your preparations, if any,
regarding this matter."
        "I'm not sure what exactly you're talking about," Rough
Diamond said. Contracts? Clauses? He was a rock star, dammit, not
some accountant fooling around with stacks of paperwork. He was
happy to deal with the music and the money and the glorious
chicks coming his way, and he gladly left the business side of
things to the business types.
  The business type facing him closed his eyes for a second,
sighed with resignation, and leaned back in his chair. "I can
see," he continued, "that a little explanation is in order here."
      "Keep it short and snappy," Diamond retorted. "I've got
urgent matters to attend to in my hotel. Those poor chicks must
be withering away in my absence."
      "Please, Mr. Diamond, take the issue at hand seriously. As
you don't seem to know, the band you're fronting has reached a
stage in its career where clause 17 of your contract comes into
play."
 "And what is this stage we have reached?"
      "Our statistical data indicate that CD and concert ticket
sales are beginning to decrease. This is clearly the start of a
downhill slide in the band's career. It has happened many times,
with many bands, and thorough analysis of this phenomenon has
enabled us to deal with this problem in a satisfactory way. That
is exactly what clause 17 of your contract is all about. A
guaranteed boost of the band's career, a method by which we turn
this downhill trend into an uphill one."
       "Aw, come on, boss. We're still doing well. There's no
reason to be worried."
 "We're dealing with hard facts here, Diamond. This is the
beginning of the long way down, unless we take drastic measures.
The statistics don't lie."
     "I don't care about statistics."
     "But the statistics care about you. You can't ignore the
evidence. And don't forget that you're bound by your contract."
        "Alright, spill me the news. What am I supposed to do?"
        "It has been proven that, at the stage your band has now
reached, a spectacular suicide of the band's frontman will
catapult the band into the top league. Record sales will
skyrocket to unprecedented levels. There will be tribute tours
and events, massive press coverage, a full©fledged re©release
plan and a worlwide advertising campaign. It's either that or
quickly going down the drain. As you can understand, we prefer
the first option."
     "You're out of your mind."
     "I can assure you that I'm not. And let me remind you that
you signed the contract. By doing that, you agreed to all the
terms therein, including, of course, clause 17."
       There was silence for a few moments. Of course he hadn't
bothered to read the contract properly. Anyway the legalese the
contract was written in was totally beyond him. No doubt the guy
was serious. They were after all only out to make a buck. And
they were determined to achieve that goal by whatever means
necessary. Such as stipulating in his contract that...
 "Wait a minute," he said. "What if I refuse to go in a
colorful big bang?"
    "I'm afraid you can't," the well©groomed business type with
the expressionless face said. "You're bound by your contract.
That same contract allows us to stage your suicide if you fail to
fulfill your obligations yourself."
    Bastards, he thought. You filthy sons©of©bitches. They had
thought of everything. Well, maybe not quite everything...
    "I have a plan," he announced, "but I'm not sure if it's
spectacular enough for your purposes."
 His opponent raised his eyebrows. "Well, let me see. I'll
let you know my thoughts."
     Rough Diamond never found out what his boss's thoughts were
about his improvised©on©the©spot suicide plan. The man merely
yelled and screamed while Diamond pulled him toward the window of
his office on the forty©second floor of the Nakashita Company
headquarters building, pushed him through it and took him along
all the way down to the street. When they arrived there, the man
was no longer in shape to express his thoughts.




THE DAY THEY CAME BACK

by Frank Roger


1

 "Good evening. I'm Susan Bayley. Could I speak to Mr.
Bruford, please?"
      "I'm sorry," the middle©aged woman who had opened the door
said after a moment's hesitation, eyeing her warily. "I'm afraid
my husband is very busy right now and I don't think he can see
you now."
      "Please, Mrs. Bruford, this is really very important." She
smiled her most imploring smile, and noticed to her relief that
it proved effective once again. The door wasn't slammed shut in
her face. Mr. Bruford wasn't so busy after all, she thought as
she was ushered in.
    Bruce Bruford had at first looked surprised and mildly
annoyed as they were introduced to each other, but he quickly
appeared to be willing to talk about his discovery. This might
well turn out to be a fruitful encounter. If only they were all
like this, Susan thought, as Bruford told her to follow him into
his "office" as he chose to label the patio at the back of the
house. The place had the right degree of chaos to be called
cozy.
  "So you're a freelance reporter," Bruford said as they had
taken position in a pair of rickety chairs. "You're not the first
one to present yourself here. And I must say I wasn't too happy
with the others. They usually came unannounced, walked all over
me and basically just invaded my privacy."
     "I understand," Susan said. "My apologies for coming
unannounced myself too. I hope I won't take up too much of your
precious time. I suppose you already know why I came here."
    "I think I do. It's those funny fish I've seen. How did you
find out?"
     "I spotted this." From her pocket she produced a newspaper
clipping, unfolded it, handed it to him.
       "Oh, yes," he said. "I should have known."
     "It says here in this piece that you took some pictures of
the creatures you saw. It's also mentioned that the creatures
were trilobites."
      "I never said that. The guy who wrote that piece assumed
they were trilobites from the description I gave him. I myself
don't know an awful lot about those extinct animals."
  "I understand. Could I see the pictures you've taken?"
 "Well, I guess there's no harm in that." Not without some
difficulty Bruford rose to his feet and rummaged among a stack of
papers and files on a nearby table. He returned with a manilla
envelope which he handed her, nodding by way of encouragement to
take a look at the pictures.
   What she saw didn't tell her much. The six pictures showed a
pond, viewed from different angles, and in the water vague shapes
could be seen. It was impossible to determine what the shapes
were. They could have been any type of ordinary fish or even
debris floating underwater. The pictures were clearly taken by an
amateur. This was another case without any hard evidence to back
up the conclusions reached by the newspaperman © there was no way
you could consider Bruford's descriptions and impressions as
having any scientific value. There was only one possibility left
to find out if she was onto something here. She would have to go
and look for herself, hoping there would still be anything that
provided some evidence towards a 'confirmed reemergence' as it
was officially referred to.
    "Well?" Bruford asked, as she had been silently studying the
pictures for longer than his patience could hold.
      "I'm afraid these aren't totally convincing," she answered.
"Would it be possible to go and take a look where you've taken
these pictures? Could you show me around?"
     Bruford thought for a moment, ran his hand through his hair,
and finally said, "I suppose I can do that. But not tonight. I
don't like the idea of going out there this late. It'll be
growing dark soon anyway. There wouldn't be a lot to see."
     "I understand. What about tomorrow?"
   "That should be fine. Can you be here tomorrow, say around
two o'clock in the afternoon?"
 "No problem."
  "Well then." Bruford seemed somehow relieved. Some of the
tiredness had left his features and he sat back comfortably. One
moment she had thought he was about to ask her to leave, but
apparently he felt like talking some more. She must have made a
better impression on him than the ones who'd come before her. "I
take it these extinct animals mean something special to you. Are
you always after them?"
        "As a matter of fact I am," she admitted. "They're a hot
topic, of course. Lots of papers and magazines pay good money for
serious reports on these reemergences. Or for less serious
reports, for that matter. Not everybody's interested in
scientifically correct coverage of this phenomenon."
   "What do you mean?"
    "Some folks simply want to cash in on it, earn a quick buck.
They'll print anything that's sensational enough to shift more
copies of what they're putting out."
   "I see. I guess you don't work for those magazines?"
   "Not really. I don't think they would show a lot of interest
in a story about trilobites. What they're going for is the kind
of thing that tickles people's imagination. They want dinosaurs
and mammoths and sabertooth tigers to reemerge. The odd
pterodactyl might be considered. Anything less grandiose won't do
© even if it happens to be a confirmed reemergence, complete with
solid evidence to back the story. Of course most extinct species
of animals and especially plants are totally unknown to the
public at large. Most people wouldn't recognize a reemerged
extinct animal if they fell over one. I met this guy once who had
discovered a platypus and was convinced this definitely was
another reemergence. By the way, did you immediately recognize
the trilobites for what they were, assuming that's what they were
indeed?"
       "No, I didn't." Bruford shook his head. "I just thought they
were funny©looking fish. I hadn't seen anything like them around
here. I happened to have my camera with me, so I took some
pictures. That's about it. Then the local paper here did the
piece that you just showed me."
        "You must have come across reports on these reemergences."
     "Oh, I sure did. But to me they were just wild stories. Too
far out to be taken seriously. I never paid much attention to
them. Maybe after what I've seen now and what with you guys
turning up here one after another I'll take a different attitude
towards them." Bruford cast down his gaze, seemed lost in thought
for a moment.
  A silence was building up, and Susan grabbed the opportunity
to tell him she had taken up enough of his time by now and
tomorrow they would no doubt have the chance to discuss all these
matters in more detail. Bruford nodded approvingly, and showed
her out, politely telling her how much he was looking forward to
showing her around tomorrow.

Ã **Ã2

 Later that night, as she was taking a shower in her motel
room, Susan's thoughts went back to old Bruford and his alleged
trilobites. She had her doubts about tomorrow, but now that she
had made the trip out here she might as well take it as far as
she could. Genuine reemergences were few and far between, but if
she didn't even bother to track them down she would never hit the
really big ones.
       She vividly remembered the first time the phenomenon had
manifested itself. A number of years ago someone had claimed he
had seen a large insect supposed to be extinct for millennia.
The man who had spotted it was a biologist, which lent some
credibility to his story, and he had been able to give a fairly
accurate description of the insect. He hadn't been able to take a
picture, and most scientists were very skeptical about the affair
although nobody doubted the biologist's integrity.
   But then more and more sightings were reported, from a
variety of sources all over the world. A whole range of
supposedly long extinct animals were seen, from dodo birds to
creatures unknown to anyone but paleontologists. Pictures were
taken, video footage was shot. Soon it became clear that this
could by no means be a misinterpretation or a hoax. Extinct
species were resurfacing, in unexpected places, at unexpected
moments, seemingly at random. So far scientists had failed to
come up with a sound explanation of this phenomenon of
'reemergences' as it had by then been labeled. Crackpots, on the
other hand, had shown little reticence in producing an endless
stream of wild theories : Apocalypse was fast approaching, the
fabric of time had been tampered with by godless scientists or
aliens had chosen this method to tell mankind to mend its ways.
        Not surprisingly, the media had jumped onto the bandwagon.
Commercial TV had devoted lavish attention to anything even
remotely linked with the phenomenon. Newspapers and magazines had
followed suit © and the less serious they were the more
sensational their coverage. They weren't the only ones to cash in
on the newest big thing. Certain areas which had seen their
tourist industry dwindle away due to the recession suddenly had
giant sauropods wallowing around in their lakes (only very
occasionally surfacing to be actually seen © at night, or at
least at moments when no one was around with cameras) or mammoths
strolling around in their woodlands. Susan called it the Loch
Ness syndrome.
 But all this sensationalist nonsense didn't invalidate the
very real reemergence of animal and plant species that had been
extinct up to now. What Susan asked herself was where all this
would end. Would more creatures turn up for a while after which
the phenomenon would stop manifesting itself? Would the process
accelerate and flood the earth with reemerged creatures in ever
increasing numbers? Would every animal and plant that had once
lived on the face of the earth eventually return to it? Or was
the outcome totally beyond their grasp? Nobody knew, but that
didn't keep most people from speculating wildly. Some as yet
unconfirmed rumors added fuel to the fires of debate. Somewhere
in Germany's Black Forest a Neanderthal man had been spotted.
Another hoax? A tourist attraction? A genuine find? She couldn't
track down every instance of a possible reemergence, but no doubt
another reporter would follow that trail and she would hear about
it one day. And, oh yes, Elvis Presley had been seen in a London
pub. But then again Elvis had been spotted a million times, even
before the reemergences.
       But right now the trilobites were what kept her interest in
this thing going. She had picked this particular trail because it
had a ring of plausibility to it. She had spotted the article in
a regional paper © not the kind of publication that went for far
out material, as by its very nature it was unable to boost its
print run to dizzying heights anyway.
  Maybe tomorrow she would know more. Otherwise she would
continue her work on another trail.





3

    "Just a moment," Bruford said, panting heavily. "I need a
rest." The walk, short as it had been, had exhausted the man.
Susan thought he must be in his mid or late sixties. He seemed to
be in reasonably good health, looking tired rather than old. He
had greeted her warmly as she had presented herself at two
o'clock, had invited her in his car and had driven her up here,
close to the pond where he had spotted the 'funny©looking fish' a
week ago or so. Now they were walking the short distance that
still separated them from that exact spot.
     Bruford was inhaling deeply. "We'll be there in a minute,"
he finally managed to say. "I'll be fine, don't worry."
        "Never mind," she said. "We've got all the time we need." As
she was waiting for Bruford to catch his breath, she rummaged in
her purse to find the newspaper clipping with the picture that
had been taken here.
   "I'm sure you'll recognize the place," Bruford said, edging
closer to her. He peered at her purse, as if intrigued. Frowning,
she looked up.
 Bruford smiled, pointed at the photograph that had caught
his attention. "Your husband?"
 "My late husband," she corrected him. "A car crash. A few
years ago."
    "I'm sorry."
   For a while they walked in silence, slowly, and presently
they arrived at the pond. Susan recognized it right away from the
picture in the paper.
  "This is it," Bruford said, clearly glad they had finally
arrived. "That's where I saw the fish," he added, pointing. "Or
those trilobites or whatever they were."
       Right now nothing could be seen in the tranquil water.
 "I'll take a look around," she said. "You can stay back
there if you want. You seem tired."
    "Fine," he answered, clearly relieved.
 Slowly she walked all along the expanse of water, looking
out carefully for anything to show itself, scrutinizing the pond
from all possible angles. As she noticed the sunlight glinting
off a bottle lying half©covered among the grass and weeds, an
idea occurred to her. She picked up the bottle and threw it
smack in the middle of the pond. It disappeared with a splash
under the water, sending ripples all around. If there were any
creatures in there, they would now have been raised from their
slumber and should be visible swimming about or whatever it was
trilobites did to get moving. As the ripples died away, she
peered intensely into the water, anxious to let nothing escape
her attention. If there had been any trilobites in this pond, or
any other creatures of any size worth noticing for that matter,
they were long gone by now. It was clear to her now that there
was no way to determine what Bruford had seen here last week.
This was not an issue worth further investigation.
     She walked back to where Bruford was standing.
 "I hope you're not too disappointed," he said. "I really saw
them the other day. I really did."
     "I don't doubt it for a minute," she said. "But whatever
those funny fish were, they're too far away now to find out more
about them. Well, I guess we'd better go back now. I've taken up
more than enough of your time."
     Bruford nodded, and they slowly walked back to where he had
parked his car.
        "Why are you after all these extinct critters?" Bruford
suddenly asked, breaking the silence that had been building up.
"Has it anything to do with you losing your husband? Do you hope,
perhaps subconsciously, to see him coming back too one day? You
don't mind my asking, do you? I mean, I know it's none of my
business."
     "That's okay." What is this man up to, she asked herself.
Where did he get that idea? No human beings had "reemerged", let
alone recently deceased ones. This was just a crazy idea not
worth paying much attention to. Maybe it would be better to
simply ignore the question, but she couldn't quite bring herself
to do that.
    "What you're saying is impossible," she blurted out. "People
don't come back. The species that we've seen reemerging go back
hundreds of thousands or millions of years. Patrick died only
four years ago in this car crash. Where did you get this notion
that..." She gestured vaguely, her voice trailing off.
 "It was just an idea," he said, apologetically.
        Even though she would like to see this subject closed, she
found herself unable to keep the words back now that she had
started talking. She just had to get this off her chest. "We'd
been married a couple of years only. We had our well©paid jobs
and were planning to have a child and everything was just fine
and the future had never looked so bright. And then©©"
 She cast a glance at Bruford, who simply nodded
understandingly.
       "I've gotten over it," she continued. "Time has healed the
pain. I prefer to think back to the happy moments we had
together."
     "Tell me about your husband," Bruford said. "His name was
Patrick, I believe you said." They had reached the car now, and
got inside.
    As they drove back, Susan said, "Patrick was a reporter as
well. That's how we met, through our jobs. I did more general
stuff, whereas he was mainly involved with music. Record reviews,
concerts, interviews with artists. He'd always been interested in
the music scene. He was very much into Jimi Hendrix, even quite
fanatically so. He had this large collection, about everything
released on album or single in a variety of countries. The old
vinyl stuff. He wasn't too keen on those CD reissues. His
attachment to those old record albums was very much
sentimental."
  "Did you sell the collection?"
 "No, I didn't, although I was told it's worth a fortune. But
I couldn't bring myself to part with it. I suppose I'm equally
sentimentally attached to it, if for a very different reason."
 "I understand."
        Little more was said as lly nobody outside of Juanita's fanclub, and he doubted the
other members did. And suppose one of them did get in touch with
another group, how would he approach these perfect strangers,
explain the problems they were facing, phrase the questions that
were haunting them? Would communication be possible at all? And
what made Steve think these others would be so well©informed and
ready and willing to provide cogent replies to all their
questions? And as to Steve's second suggestion : gaining access
to a channel featuring news was neither easy nor cheap. Mick
certainly couldn't afford it, and he wasn't sure he'd succeed
regardless of the venture's financial aspect. He hardly knew how
to go about it. How long since he'd seen a news flash anyway?
News tended to be so depressing, he remembered. And didn't they
have enough problems on their hands already? Some more downbeat
information would only make matters worse. No doubt the others
would agree on that score. They would have to deal with their
problems on their own accord as best they could, without outside
help. Steve wasn't being very realistic. The strain must have
gotten to him.
 Fortunately there still were rationally©thinking individuals
among them, who suggested sensible strategies. Take Pete's latest
message, which included the following neat idea : "What I'm
wondering is, How would Juanita have reacted to all this? What
route would she have followed? I suggest we step in her shoes and
let her guide us onto the path leading out of this mess. If
there's anyone who can help us, it's Juanita. Why is everybody
overlooking the obvious solution?"
     Fine, Mick thought, nodding appreciatively. Good to hear the
voice of reason for a change. We haven't all lost our minds.
There is still hope.

5

 The power failure had scared the living daylights out of
him. Until today, the very concept of a power failure had been
unknown to him. That was now no longer true © and he was still
recovering from the shock. Total darkness. Absolute silence. A
dead screen. As if the entire world had winked out of existence,
leaving only his consciousness hovering somewhere in the void.
After an immeasurable stretch of time, eons that were probably
mere minutes, the lights had flickered back into life, the
humming of machines and all his equipment filled the background
again. His screen remained dead for some time, but eventually the
connection was restored, and he could resume his work, if with
trembling fingers. The nagging fear that another power failure
might occur dominated his every thought for the rest of the day.
       Would it never end? Problem after problem was coming their
way, an unstoppable tide eroding away their cozy, care©free
lives. Juanita's new looks, her subsequent disappearance,
unsettlingly bizarre commercials, shopping service and delivery
mishaps, and now power failures. All this had to mean something.
If only they could find a way to figure out what.
      He ate only a little, afraid to use up his supplies. He
might still need them. The problems in ordering stuff and having
it delivered were becoming worse all the time. It would be
foolish to take chances.
       After his simple meal, he logged in and browsed through the
bulletin board that had by now become a life©buoy he clung to, as
if he were adrift on an ocean of inexplicable and unwelcome
changes. It was only natural that in these troubled times the
members of Juanita's fanclub turned to each other for mutual
support. They were all facing the same problems, in varying
degrees, and coping with them with varying success. Some were
braving the storm, others were succumbing to madness.
  At least, Mick thought, we haven't completely given up.
Well, not all of us. Some members were clearly buckling under the
strain, judging from their crazy ranting. Take Tony's latest
message, for instance : "You know what we ought to do, friends? I
say we leave our goddamned apartments and go outside, out on the
streets, and I'm sure we'll find the answers to our questions
there. Go out, go out! The streets are beckoning! Staying locked
up in our apartments will finally do us in." Tony had clearly
lost his mind. Nobody in his right mind went out on the streets
anymore. It was said to be dangerou




CRASHCOURSE :
THE WINNERS OF THE ANNUAL CAR CRASH AWARDS


by Frank Roger




       No doubt there will be cries of outrage once again. No doubt
we will once again be accused of blatant sensationalism. No doubt
what is left of the so©called "serious press" will rally against
us and file a formal complaint, dismissing our awards
presentation as a token of extreme bad taste, a total lack of
social conscience and a pathological penchant for the morbid and
the macabre. It has always been like this, and it isn't likely to
change in the foreseeable future.
      As usual, we can only seek solace and comfort in the high
print©run of our publications (dwarfing those of our esteemed
"serious" competitors), our healthy cash©flow situation (although
we thoroughly despise material wealth and all the worldly
benefits it entails), and the ever©growing interest the public at
large is showing for our endeavors (needless to say, popular
appeal leaves us totally indifferent).
 But seriously, we've put your patience to the test for too
long already. Allow us to present this year's winners of the so
highly coveted car crash awards. Here we go...
    It only took mr. Herváá Beaugeste a short, if unplanned
afternoon nap behind the wheel of his gigantic truck to capture
the award for Most Dramatic Traffic Accident. The scene of this
memorable event was the Paris Ring at the height of rush hour,
packed with cars and trucks as usual. Lost in doubtlessly rosyªcolored dreams, mr. Beaugeste steered his truck at high speed
into a sea of sluggishly moving vehicles, caught in a massive
jam. The cars were crushed like tin cans, compressed until that
particular stretch of road had been transformed into an inferno
of battered and warped metal, larded with shredded human flesh,
as if a seriously deranged architect had been commissioned to
relandscape the road according to his boldest psychopathic
visions. Only when Herváá Beaugeste's truck had finally ground to
a crunching halt, the results of its battering©ram©like progress
became clear.
  Conjure up before your mind's eye an awe©inspiring
battlefield, drenched in spilled coolant, steam spiralling up
from it, a shroud of vapor smothering the agonized cries of the
mortally injured embedded in the hodgepodge of metal and flesh.
Back at the end of the carnage, a tanker had caught fire, rolling
out a carpet of greedily licking flames across the wreckage,
quickly turning the simmering stew of crumpled cars and squashed
humans into a rare treat served flambáá.
      Dozens of people lost their lives that day. Many more were
seriously injured, among them, sadly, mr. Beaugeste, who will
receive his award when he rises from his coma in the James Dean
Hospital.

     The judges chose to give the award for Most Original Traffic
Accident to mr. Rudolf Meine from Munich, Germany. While cruising
through downtown Munich, mr. Meine drove his Mercedes 300SE
straight into a large clothing store, in a desperate effort to
avoid knocking over a few children crossing the street as he came
along. Instead, mr. Meine knocked over about two dozen window
dummies, some unclad, some sporting the shop's newest items. They
were crushed under his wheels, torn to pieces or swept up and
thrown aside brutally.
 The result was a spectacle of rare beauty. The judges
describe it as "a hauntingly accurate interpretation of mankind's
current incarnation as an automobile©crazed species. The hapless
mannequins, representing unsuspecting shoppers on the sidewalk or
customers strolling inside the store, were scattered all over the
place in various stages of dismemberment. Although some of the
unfortunate girls had their plastic limbs or head ripped off,
their torso crushed, or their entire body maimed beyond
description, their eyes were still staring dispassionately into
whatever direction their heads were turned, unmoved by the
accident, resignedly accepting their dreadful fate as a normal
part of life in today's traffic©saturated and accident©prone
society."
      The judges unanymously decided mr. Meine fully deserved the
award for thus exemplifying, however unwittingly, a key element
of today's world.

     The award for the traffic accident in the special category
of Highest Artistic Merit went to the heirs of mr. Manuel Herrera
Calvino, the unfortunate truck driver who did not survive the
very accident that immortalized his name by adding it to the
pantheon of Crashcourse winners. Consider the eloquence of the
judges deliberating on this special category:
  "That day the weather was exceptionally bad in Northern
California, which had already led to a series of comparatively
insignificant traffic accidents. Mr. Herrera Calvino, however,
managed to turn what might otherwise have been simply another bad
day for traffic into a truly memorable event. While trying to
avoid a cluster of cars and vans pressed into each other after a
sequence of pile©ups on the Golden Gate Bridge, mr. Herrera
Calvino achieved the impossible: he rammed a number of cars,
broke through the Bridge's railing and dove into the raging
waters of the Bay.
     "The splashdown of the already battered truck was so
vehement that its entire cargo (a chemical product whose exact
nature cannot be disclosed on request of its manufacturers, who
copyrighted the incident) fell prey to the waves. The
exceptionally strong surge and the fierce gale winds quickly
whipped up the mysterious substance into towering castles of
white foam, parts of which were torn off and subsequently blown
away in the direction of the city. Soon the Golden Gate and parts
of San Francisco were covered under a decorative shroud of
whitish fluff, as if the city had been selected by a megalomaniac
artist endeavoring to turn San Francisco into a stunning work of
art. As a matter of fact, we do consider this Architecture of
Foam to be a convincing new art form. For this remarkable
innovation, the artist's heirs are fully entitled to this special
award."

       This year's special Cold Blood Award was once again
sponsored by Sprizzle, the soft©drinks©and©drugs company whose
recent line of energizing, assertiveness©stimulating cocktails,
("only slightly illegal", as their advertising campaign had it)
especially popular with young drivers facing long stints behind
the wheel in the wee hours of morning (some of whom may well end
up among the award winners in the years to come) proved to be
such a runaway succes.
 The award, often labeled the most desirable and aimed©for of
the Crashcourse trophies, went to miss Jennifer Jobson, who
performed a dare©devil stunt with her spanking©new jet©black
Porsche in the outskirts of Birmingham on a peaceful summer
afternoon. At one point, she must have spotted a group of punks,
off in the distance, sitting, lying or otherwise hanging around
on the sidewalk in front of The Bull's Eye, their favorite pub.
The exact nature of what followed isn't quite clear, and miss
Jobson herself is, of course, unable to elucidate the matter due
to her critical condition.
     "Could it perhaps have been a suicide attempt?" the judges
wondered. "Or was this foolhardy action spurred by a traumatizing
incident, an episode in miss Jobson's youth somehow involving
punks, a mental scar she wanted to exorcize from her mind? Or was
miss Jobson perhaps, unlikely as this may seem, a mentally
imbalanced person, giving in to an uncontrollable urge, suddenly
surfacing in her mind and obliterating all rational thought?"
  Whatever the case might have been, the results were
impressive. Miss Jobson put the pedal to the metal and sped off
towards the unsuspecting punk gang. When it finally dawned on
their alcohol©clouded minds what was in store for them, it was
too late to escape their nemesis©on©wheels. Its engine revved up
beyond the danger level, the Porsche came bursting forth and bit
into their leather©covered flesh, squashed it into pulp and
spread it all over The Bull's Eye's facade. In the process, the
Porsche itself was blown to smithereens, as was part of the
gang's hangout. A shower of twisted metal, shattered bricks and
shreds of human (or punk) flesh descended all over the area. Some
fragments were found as far away as a hundred meters from the
focus of this kamikaze mission, this epic battle between punk and
Porsche, the clash of angry low©life and spoiled©brat©crusade.
 Unlike the punks, miss Jobson miraculously survived the
battle © if only by a very narrow margin. She was thrown out of
the car, and rushed to the hospital in serious but not hopeless
condition. The most telling reminder of that eventful day,
however, is what was left of the Porsche : a pitiful carcass,
stripped down to its barest essentials, like a discarded weapon
left to rust on the battlefield, its original shape barely
recognizable, a tool that had served its purpose and had lost all
its value, except perhaps its power as a symbol of the hatred
fuelling merciless acts of violence perpetrated by irreconcilable
martyrs against their sworn enemies.
   The special Cold Blood award has rarely ever been given to a
more appropriate contender.



 Now that the judges have decided which names to add to the
Crashcourse Hall of Fame, they are relieved of their duties and
can take a much©deserved rest.
 A new panel of judges will soon be appointed for next year's
Crashcourse Awards Ceremony, scrutinizing TV and printed media
coverage of traffic accidents, studying them from all possible
angles, weighing their faults against their merits, separating
the merely interesting cases from the truly outstanding
candidates.
    Are you by any chance interested in who will win the awards
next year? Just be there! And drive carefully... unless you
cherish ambitions towards being nominated yourself.




THE RISE AND FALL OF THE THREADBARE BROTHERHOOD

by Frank Roger



1

       Albert shivered. It's only the morning chill, he thought. It
won't be long before the temperature starts to rise and I'll feel
just fine again. Yet he knew he'd find it difficult to feel truly
comfortable in his present condition. He tried to suppress the
shivers running down his spine in a seemingly endless succession.
Was it the cold, or only his nervousness? It didn't really
matter. No doubt the man he was waiting for would turn up soon.
He expected him to show his face any second now.
       Albert let his gaze sweep all over the area. These
outskirts of town were very quiet at this early hour. He appeared
to be one of the very few people up and about already. Across the
street a middle©aged woman walked by, her heavy, sagging breasts
bobbing along with every step she took. From the other side a man
was coming, hurriedly. Sturdily built, hairy©chested, fullªbearded. Could that be him? It better be. He had been out here
waiting long enough.
   I hope all this isn't some terrible waste of time, Albert
thought. Suppose his friend who had talked him into this meeting
with someone representing "an organisation you will doubtlessly
want to join" had been out to pull a prank on him? He would never
forgive him. In any case, he was about to find out.
 To Albert's relief, the man he had seen came briskly up to
him, smiled, and said, "Mr. Bear?"
     "Yes," Albert said, "I'm Albert Bear." They shook hands.
       "Nice to meet you. My name's Dick, Richard Dick. Call me
Rick. Follow me, please."
      "Fine. Where exactly are we going to?" Albert asked,
matching the other man's swift pace.
   "I'm afraid I can't tell you. But everything will become
clear soon enough, trust me. Have you been told what organisation
I represent?"
  "Not really. Tell me. I'm real curious. I hope all this will
be worth the trouble."
 "We call ourselves The Threadbare Brotherhood."
        "I'm afraid the name doesn't ring a bell."
     "We do keep a low profile. And we have our reasons for doing
so, as you will soon find out."
        "I see." Albert was still skeptical. They had turned a
number of corners by now, and he wasn't sure he would find his
way back on his own. He should have paid more attention.
       "Your friend, who is, as you may or may not know, also a
member of ours, has been keeping an eye on you, and suggested you
would fit right in."
   "I still haven't the faintest idea what kind of organisation
this Brotherhood of yours is."
 Rick chuckled. "By the way, you don't mind a little biking,
do you? We won't walk all the way. There's a public bike shed
nearby. We'll pick up a couple and pedal the rest of the way to
the secret Brotherhood Grove."
      "Secret?"
      Rick shot him a conspiratorial little smile. "We're not
exactly legal, dear friend."
   "Wait a minute, wait a minute." Alarmed, Albert stopped dead
in his tracks. He didn't quite like the sound of this.
 "Don't be upset. We're not criminals or drug runners or
terrorists or anything. We're simply intent on indulging in a
harmless pleasure that happens to be against the law. So we give
in to our passion in secret, among kindred spirits, where no one
can see us and deny us our heart©felt desires."
        They pulled two public bikes from the shed, and off they
went, out of the city and heading for their mysterious
destination.
   "So what is it you're doing ever so secretly then? You're
really putting my curiosity to the test there."
        Rick flashed him that funny smile again. "Look at ourselves.
Do you feel at ease like this, Albert? Do you think I do? Do you
think any of us do? Well, let me put it this way, my friend: over
at the Brotherhood Grove, we have a very strict dress code."
   Albert nearly fell off his bike when it dawned on him what
this Threadbare Brotherhood was all about. Could it really be...
"You mean...?" he said, his voice trailing off in disbelief.
   "That is dress code as opposed to undress code, if you know
what I mean," Rick replied.
    "I think I do," Albert murmured. "I think I'm reading you
loud and clear. And I also think I'll gladly join your ranks. Can
we perhaps go a little faster? I'd really like to stroll around
this little Grove of yours."
   "Be our guest," Rick said. Both of them stepped up their
pace. The promised land was beckoning.

2

     Home, Albert thought. I'm home. If only I had known about
this organisation earlier. My God, how I missed all this.
      Rick, who had introduced him to the other members present
and had shown him around, came up from behind him, patted him on
the shoulder and said, "Nice suit, Albert."
    Albert sniggered. It felt so good to wear clothes again. The
coarseness of the pants' fabric rubbing against his skin. A shirt
enveloping his body, sleeves around his arms. Shoes on his feet,
so he no longer felt the cold pavement under his bare soles. He
didn't remember the last time he had worn clothes. When had
clothes been outlawed again? He couldn't recall the exact date.
Quite some time ago, at least. Shortly after those basically
well©meaning but ultimately fuzzy©headed environmentalists had
risen to power. But it didn't really matter. What mattered was
that he had discovered this glorious sanctuary. Or rather, that
'it' had discovered him...
     "How much time do you spend here?" he asked Rick, now clad
in a bright red satin shirt, baggy trousers and a corduroy jacket
embroidered with flower motifs.
        "As much time as we can. It depends, really, on your
professional activities and your social duties. Some spend more
time here than others. And of course we have to keep the
existence of the Brotherhood and our Grove here secret, so we
can't allow our coming and going here to become conspicuous. I
hope you realize what that means."
   "I do. I'll be very careful. Can I ask you a few questions?"
   "Please do."
   "I saw only men here in the Grove. Does this mean women are
excluded from membership?"
     "Not really. They have their own organisation, and their own
secret hideout. We are in touch on a regular basis, but we keep
our activities separated for a variety of reasons. Security, for
one thing. If one of us is discovered, maybe the other can carry
the torch on its own. And apart from that there's the fact that
some members might be embarrassed by seeing fully clad men or
women. Their feelings and sensitivities have to be taken into
account."
      "I understand."
        "I hope you will also understand that it costs money to keep
all this running. Clothes are expensive, as I suppose you can
imagine. It's all bootleg textile, smuggled into our Grove at
great risk. The Brotherhood's entire wardrobe is taken care of at
great cost. Washing, ironing, repairing. Not to mention new
acquisitions. As a member you will be asked to contribute a
weekly sum to cover the Brotherhood's expenses. We're not asking
much, and the membership fee is calculated based on your income.
I don't think that is too great a sacrifice for the privileges
you will be enjoying here."
    "By no means, Rick. I'll pay whatever's necessary. I want to
be part of this, even if it costs me my last cent."
    Rick chuckled. "We want to enrich our members' lives, not
ruin them."
    "And what kind of activities are open to the members here at
the Grove?"
   Rick spread his hands wide, smiled his most heart©warming
smile. "Our members come here to enjoy a privilege which society
at large denies them. As long as the activities they choose to
pursue here are unharmful to the Brotherhood, they are free to
indulge in whatever takes their fancy. Some may simply want to
engage in conversation with like©minded people, others may prefer
to exercise, read, meditate or create works of art. We have one
member who designs fanciful clothes, an artistic ambition he
cannot possibly pursue outside of the Grove. We have a group of
members who perform plays in period costumes. They turned to us
in their search for an opportunity to satisfy the passion they
harbor for the performing arts. Other members' interests are less
well©focussed or geared less specifically towards endeavors
frowned upon in the 'real world'. Some members come here because
they feel more at ease wearing clothes, without therefore
tackling any well©defined activities. As I said, we neither
impose nor ban any passtimes, as long as the interests of the
Brotherhood are respected."
    "I'll have no trouble aligning myself with that attitude,"
Albert said.
   "Is there anything else you would like to say?"
        "Yes," Albert replied. "As a matter of fact there is. I'd
like to say that I can hardly believe all this. It's simply too
good to be true."
      Rick laughed politely. "Join us," he countered, "and support
us. Allow us to thrive, to grow, to become a force to be reckoned
with. Who knows what is within our reach, what brilliant future
lies ahead of us. Just think, and dream."
      Albert nodded approvingly. This was a dream alright. And he
would do everything he could to make it come true.

3

      In the Brotherhood Albert found friends at last, true
friends, and a richly textured social life the 'real world'
hadn't been able to provide him with. He spent as much time in
the Grove as he could ; his being a bachelor was a distinct
advantage in this respect, although one always had to be careful.
      The collection of cottages and interlocking patios, gardens
and pathways they called the Grove quickly became a haven rather
than a home, the bike ride to its conveniently chosen location
beyond the rim of the village, where their coming and going might
pass unobserved, a pilgrimage rather than a trip.
      He was introduced to new members on every visit to the
Grove. As the entire membership was never present at once, it
would take him considerable time before he knew everyone. In many
ways this was the most enriching period of his life. He developed
an active interest in art and took part in the Brotherhood's
mind©expanding cultural program.
       He came to view every visit to the Grove as a breaking©out
of the treadmill ordinary life in the 'real world' had become,
and performed the daily duties, professional as well as social,
expected of him in the world of the unclad as if on automatic
pilot, coming to life only when among his textile©bedecked peers.
In their stimulating presence he could happily forget his daily
chores as a member of a recyclable waste pick©up team and his
colleagues, all well©intentioned people with whom, however, he
failed to get really in touch. Their lives seemed so gray and
boring, their interests in life so far removed from his ideals.
 Yet he couldn't say life in the 'real world' was bad.
Basically it was alright. He had to admit it was run smoothly and
efficiently by the environmentalist naturists who had risen to
power, way back in bygone days. They all lived peaceful, tranquil
lives in harmony with nature. It was a humane society without
social classes, without organised crime or social unrest. It
could have been sheer utopia... if only it had offered some
thrills, some naughty pleasures and unpermitted stimuli. Life
simply lacked that single magic ingredient that made it worth
living.
        But now he had discovered the magic. He wouldn't allow it to
slip through his fingers.

Ã **Ã4

    It happened when he was watching a performance of a project
he had been actively involved in. In a fraction of a second a
whole series of recollections flashed by before his mind's eye.
His meeting with Rick and his subsequent joining of the
Threadbare Brotherhood. His quick rise within the social
framework of the organisation. His creative role as costume
designer in a performance blending drama, choreography and music
that ranked among the finest works of art ever created by members
of the Brotherhood, a testimony to the movement's importance as a
cultural force, in spite of (or perhaps thanks to) its
clandestine nature.
    All the talent that had been invested into this project, all
the time and energy that had been spent in creating and staging
it, were now wasted. The dream, that bold, bright dream they had
all shared and nurtured, was now shattered.
    A wave of bleakest despair washed over Albert as a group of
twenty policemen stormed inside the Grove's theater, interrupting
the performance in mid©flow. The law©enforcers were easily
recognizable by the fluorescent insignia painted onto their bare
skins. There was nothing the Brotherhood members could do but
surrender. They had been caught in the act.
    The police handled the matter quickly and efficiently. All
the members present were rounded up. Their clothes were
confiscated, as were all the items of clothing found on the
premises. The Brotherhood had lost its entire wardrobe in one
sweep. The Grove was declared off©limits until further notice.
The members were arrested, separated and led to the police
headquarters where they would be interrogated. Albert knew for
sure a sentence would follow.
  No doubt the members of the Brotherhood not present when the
raid had been carried out would be discovered as well. How could
this have happened? Had someone been careless? Had a police
inspector infiltrated their ranks? Had the police been tipped
off? Albert was convinced they would never find out.
   His biggest fear now was the interrogation, and the fate
that was in store for him. Shivers ran down his spine (bare,
again) and this time no morning or evening chill was responsible
for them.



5

        The public burning had been a painful humiliation for all of
them, but for Rick it must have been especially excruciating. He
had been chosen as the one to take hold of the torch and set fire
to the Brotherhood's wardrobe, piled up high on the village
market square, a mound of offerings to be sacrificed to the gods
of nudity, a gesture of subjugation and self©negation to the
powers in command. Soon the voracious flames had engulfed their
defenseless prey, burning the mass of clothes away to particles
drifting off with the wind. Ash and charred bits blew into their
faces, the stench of burning textile reached their nostrils,
filling the assembled former Brotherhood members with despair and
the boisterously cheering village people with unconcealed glee.
The black smoke rising from the heap of clothes as it was
consumed by the greedily licking flames added a fitting note of
gloom to the bleakness of the occasion. Tears came to Albert's
eyes © and not only due to the sting of the smoke.
     But as he had known all along, the burning had been a mere
prelude, a pleasant diversion for the village populace. The rest
of the proceedings would be less public... and no doubt less
pleasant as well.
      The interrogation by the moral police turned out to be
crushing rather than merely painful, mind©wiping rather than
simply humiliating. The officer was a short©haired woman, her
cold blue eyes peering into his, an impenetrable gaze that filled
him with dread. Her voice was firm and emotionless as she fired
questions at him. He tried to look away from her piercing stare
and concentrate instead on the insignia painted onto the skin of
her shoulders and upper arms, or on the gracious curves of her
breasts, but every time he replied to a question he felt his gaze
drawn back to her face and locked eyes with her.
       "Did it ever occur to you," she asked, "that by joining the
Threadbare Brotherhood you were involving yourself in antiªsocial activities?"
 "Believe me, officer," Albert hastened to say, "I didn't
join them for any political reason or anything. I'm not a
dissident or some revolutionary freedom©fighter. I didn't throw
in my lot with those guys after some heavy philosophizing about
the deeper meanings and hidden truths of wearing clothes. I'm
simply this chilly, shivery type, you see? Cold really gets to
me. I wanted to wear something every now and then, because I felt
comfortable that way. I needed a break from everyday routine,
perhaps, but it definitely wasn't a political thing."
  "Did you enjoy the company of the other members of the
Threadbare Brotherhood?"
       "Well, yes, I did. They were all fine people. They weren't
exactly die©hard terrorists out for blood or intent on wide©scale
destruction or anything. I basically had a good time over at the
Grove."
        "What made them such enchanting company?"
      "I found out I had a lot in common with them. They welcomed
me with You've got a few days to come to terms with
your life here and say farewell to whatever you hold dear in your
heart. When we go back home, you better come with us. Please.
Don't make this more difficult than it is. I'm not asking you to
do us a favor. I'm asking you to do yourself a favor. You just
can't stay in Westport, Henry. The sea will swallow this city
completely, and you along with it if you don't leave. So will you
come with us?"
 Again silence started to build up. After a few moments that
had seemed like ages Henry licked his lips, shook his head, as if
to rid himself of the mad ravings of this misguided soul, and
then he smiled and said, "Why don't the four of you come over
tomorrow for lunch or dinner? I'll fix something. No grand
cuisine, I'm afraid, but you'll be satisfied. I'm not exactly
short on supplies, you know. Anyway, I intend to buy new stocks
soon. As more and more people start coming back, the old way of
life will be resumed, there'll be traders and peddlers and
shopkeepers and things will quickly return to normal. Until then
I'm willing to help you out. Will I see you tomorrow then?"
    "Yes," Duvalier said, eyes cast down as if in despair,
although one would expect a more joyful state of mind from
someone who had just been invited for a heartwarming meal. The
man nodded. "We'll come over tomorrow night, the four of us.
Thanks for inviting us. Bye." Presently Vince was gone, off to
join his three friends. Henry got down to work right away. He had
to make arrangements for tomorrow, and there would be no point in
losing precious time. He was all too glad to have guests for the
first time in God knew how long. But deep down he realized these
visitors were merely the first ones, to be followed hot on their
heels by a steadily rising number of other returnees.

4

        As Vince watched the rolling clouds invade the sky above
Westport, driven by the same wind that bit furiously into his
face, his thoughts returned to a conversation he'd had with Eric
on the same roof terrace a number of days ago, while they were
overlooking the same panorama, at the time sunsplashed rather
than covered by a foreboding dark mass.
       During a break in their hectic shooting schedule, Eric had
turned to Vince and asked, "So did you visit that old man
yesterday? What's his place like? How does he manage to survive
there?"
        Vince had stared into the distance. The sinking city
sprawled beneath them, a majestic awe©inspiring sight as viewed
from this vantage point, the roof terrace of a once opulent
hotel. "His name is Henry," he said. "He seems to be doing okay,
considering the circumstances. He's living where he must have
spent his days before Westport was evacuated. The funny thing is,
he thinks everybody left for no valid reason and he expects
people to come back any day now. He seems to be under the
impression that we're among the first to do so. As a matter of
fact, he invited us for dinner tonight."
       "How charming. Will casual dress do?"
  "No way. Don't you realize he runs the classiest restaurant
in town?"
      "I suppose that means he serves five©star canned food?"
        "Exactly."
     "Are you quite sure we can afford his services? Shouldn't we
turn down his offer?"
  "I'll think about it. But seriously, there's one more thing.
He doesn't even consider going back with us. Maybe we can still
make him change his mind on that score. We'll see."
    They had then gone on to discuss the work they had done so
far, as well as the work that still lay ahead of them. In the few
days afterward they had done most of the shooting that had been
scheduled, and they had paid old Henry the odd visit. The poor
recluse always welcomed them with undying enthusiasm, offered
them his sincerest hospitality, and talked at some length about
the good old days which were about to come back. Vince had given
up trying to convince the old man of the actual state of affairs.
If he was too blinded by his illusions to see things as they
were, Vince's words were unlikely to have any positive effect.
 When the gale warning had come over the radio, their first
reaction had been to beat a hasty retreat, but Vince had h




ALL THE SHADES OF DARKNESS

by Frank Roger



1

   "I figured you might want to see this," Susan said, and
dropped the newspaper into Jerry's lap, then indicated the item
she expected him to read. As there were no customers present
right now in Campanella's Lite Bite & Grill, they could take it
easy for a while. Jerry shot her a wary glance, picked up the
paper and quickly scanned the article. Barely able to control his
rising anger, he threw the paper back down in disgust. A lecture
by Amanda Sheppard, former President of the United States? That
woman of all people? What on earth had driven Susan to point out
this nonsense to him?
  "Are you trying to be funny, Susan?" he snarled.
       "Not at all, Jerry. As a matter of fact, I'm dead serious.
Read it again, and think about it. Maybe you should go over
there, and face her again."
    "I can't believe this. Why do you hurt my feelings like
this?"
 There was a short silence, as they stared each other in the
eyes. Then she patted him gently on the shoulder, and said,
"Jerry, I just wanted you to consider the idea. For your own
sake. You can't go on like this forever. One day you will have to
forgive and forget. Or will you hide out here in the middle of
nowhere for the rest of your life, sulking and grumbling about
how different things might have been if you'd had your way?"
   "If I'd had my way things would definitely be different
now."
  "Different, yes, but not necessarily better," she retorted.
    "Let's not go through all that again," he said, and
suddenly he sounded tired.
     To his relief a customer entered just at that moment which
interrupted their discussion. Susan darted off to serve him,
leaving Jerry alone with the paper. He closed his eyes for a few
moments, then picked up the paper again and read the article once
more.
  It announced a lecture to be given next week in a town
which was this part of the country's nearest equivalent to a big
city, a presentation that was part of a nationwide tour by Amanda
Sheppard in promotion of her recently published memoirs. There
was a picture of her next to the article, with a caption reading
"former president of the USA." He remembered that face all too
well, and the memories were still quite painful, even after all
these years. Those coolly observing eyes, the firm line of her
jaw, and of course her dark skin, several shades darker than his
own. She had been the first black woman to become president of
the United States. More memories came flooding back. Prior to her
rise to power, there had been the recession, and the steadily
worsening living conditions for many Americans, especially
minorities and the lower social classes. Social and racial unrest
had risen to unprecedented levels.
     With a handful of fellow die©hard militants he had formed
Black Fever, one of several radicalist political movements, or
terrorist organisations as they had been referred to by the
"other side." He had led his movement from strength to strength
in its battle for more attention for the minorities' cause in
general and black rights in particular, until Sheppard's
successful anti©recession politics had rendered Black Fever and
similar movements useless. That was where the whole problem had
begun for him, and why he was now here in this godforsaken
hellhole, earning a modest living while anger and resentment and
frustration were still burning deep within his heart.
  And now Susan wanted him to go and listen to that woman's
presentation. Time hadn't quite healed the pain yet, but for one
reason or other she wanted him to reopen the wounds. But why?
Why? There had to be a pretty good reason. Susan would never
cause him any pain just for the hell of it. He knew she loved him
too much to do that. Without this unfailing love for him she
would never have agreed to follow him down here and spend her
life far away from her relatives, her friends, her old job, and
all the rest she had left behind. For him.
     There just had to be a reason. And he was going to find out
what that reason was.

2

        Later that night, after the restaurant had closed down for
the night, they were watching TV as usual. They were sitting next
to each other, but there was no contact between them, as if an
invisible wall separated them. The TV screen they were both
watching was all they shared, all they had in common tonight.
   Jerry felt very tense and irritable, and tried in vain to
control these feelings, but they were stronger than himself. He
was unable to keep his attention fixed on anything for longer
than a minute or so, and was constantly and restlessly switching
channels. Susan didn't protest. Either she didn't care much what
she was presented with, or she deemed it wiser to keep her
remarks to herself.
    Tension hung thick in the air. Jerry could feel she was
waiting for the right moment to bring up the article and her
suggestion, but for now she carefully avoided this touchy
subject. No doubt she was afraid his reaction might be a pretty
vehement one. Her fear, he had to admit, was not totally
unjustified. He felt he was on the verge of an eruption into
sheer fury. The smallest spark would be sufficient.
    The sitcom they were now watching bored him. It was one he
wasn't familiar with, and as he'd barely watched a few minutes of
it there was no way it could capture his attention. Angrily he
switched channels once again, and to his surprise the face of
current U.S. president Pedro Yamashita filled the screen, and his
voice burst into life in mid©sentence, "©©of which this economic
upheaval is a direct result, as I'm sure you'll agree."
        "You also pointed out you view yourself as a symbol, mr.
President. What exactly do you claim to symbolize?" The owner of
this new voice remained off©screen.
    "I'm very much a symbol of the current political climate in
this country and the whole movement which made this achievement
possible."
     "Are you referring to your cultural heritage here?"
    "Among other things, yes." Yamashita nodded, and a slight
smile creased his face. "But there's also the fact that this
administration, and the ones that preceded it, made a priority of
the social position of minorities within the more general
framework of an economic revival. For instance, we've©©"
       Yamashita was cut off as Jerry switched to another channel,
muttering something under his breath, and a car commercial
replaced the stoic features of the president. As Jerry had
feared, his reaction had come too late. Susan had clearly
recognized this as the moment she had been waiting for and
grabbed the opportunity with both hands.
       "Jerry," she said, "I really think we have to talk. And you
know very well about what."
    With a jerky movement he snapped up the remote control and
switched off the TV in disgust. He'd seen enough. He closed his
eyes and balled his hands into fists. After a few moments, in as
calm a voice as he could, he said, "Go ahead. Tell me what you
wanted to say. I'm listening." He kept his eyes firmly closed,
waiting for whatever it was he would have to deal with.
        "You know what Amanda Sheppard is talking about on this tour
she's doing?"
  "I suppose she'll talk about her so©called achievements."
      "What do you mean, "so©called" achievements, Jerry?"
   He didn't reply, managed to fight down a violent reaction,
turned his head away from Susan.
       "Jerry," she continued, in a remarkably calm and controlled
voice, "if you're honest you can't say that she didn't achieve
anything."
     Again, he didn't reply. He seemed to have regained control
over his rising anger, which was more than he could have hoped
for.
   "Jerry, I know very well why this is so difficult for you,
but one day you're going to have to face the facts and start©©"
        "Susan," he interrupted her abruptly, "just tell me why.
Give me one good reason why I would go and listen to that
Sheppard woman. Where did you get the idea? Why are you doing
this to me? Why?" He had finally turned back his head and now
looked her straight into the eyes.
     "Because I hate to see you ruin your life like this. You
deserve better than spending your days hiding from the rest of
the world and running away from your past. Think about today.
Think about tomorrow. It's not too late to change your ways,
Jerry. I think what you really need is a sort of shock therapy,
and I think that facing Sheppard again will do that job pretty
decently. After that you'll be free to get your life back on the
trail. I mean both our lives. We've spent more than enough time
here. I'm sick and tired of this place and the dreadful life
we're living here. And so are you. You'll have to admit that, if
you take a good long look at the time you've spent here. What did
it bring you, Jerry? Apart from smoldering anger and hatred and
bitter frustration? So get it over with. Go and face the enemy,
as you call her. Come to terms with your past. And hers. So you
can come back here and start with a clean slate. And leave this
place behind. I'm counting on you, Jerry Young. Don't let me
down. Well? Will you think about it?"
  There was a short silence, as she was waiting for a reply,
and he was trying to find the right words.
     "Excuse me," he then said, and rose brusquely to his feet.
"I have to go out. I need some fresh air."
    It was quiet outside. The gas station had closed down for
the night as well. He appeared to be the only one who had
ventured outside. Only the crickets chirping away at full blast
were an indication that this part of the world was not entirely
uninhabited. Well, he thought, this must be what a ghost town
feels like.
    And, he added, this is where I chose to live. In this
respect Susan's right, of course. This must be one of the most
boring places on the face of the earth. But then wasn't that the
main reason why he'd picked this spot in the first place? There
was little or no chance he would be recognized here. He didn't
really risk running into someone who was aware of his past.
Living here wasn't exactly big fun, of course, but then fun
wasn't something he expected out of life anymore. The pain hadn't
ebbed away over the years, as he had hoped it would. The hatred
and frustration still burned with their original intensity. It
didn't look as if that would change in the near future. He knew
very well that any sentiments he harbored tended to remain intact
as time went by.
       As he walked aimlessly down the darkening streets, more
recollections and musings filled his mind. He had to admit
Susan's remarks hadn't left him indifferent. Yet she had always
understood his ambitions, his motivations, and his actions. As a
matter of fact, back in the early days, she had been a follower
of his. That was how they had gotten to know each other. He still
remembered those days with untarnished vividness. He'd been one
of those black kids the recession had robbed of a future. Times
were lean and getting leaner. He'd always had pretty radical
ideas as well as a dynamic temper.
    He'd been active in a number of organisations, but he tended
to consider them as too 'soft' and too passive. With a number of
other radicals who felt the same passion burning within
themselves he had set up his own movement, Black Fever, with
which they all hoped to realize some of their goals. As they were
all die©hard militants and totally committed to their cause, it
was no wonder Black Fever was all too soon involved in unlawful
and violent activities as time went by and the recession struck
firmer blows. As their actions grew more aggressive and
destructive (they tended to be described as "terrorist attacks"
in the media) their success rose. By then they had gone
underground, of course, as the forces of law and order had
decided they had gone too far already.
 Black Fever quickly became the center of Jerry's life. He
sacrificed everything for it. He lived and breathed Black Fever.
And fell in love with one of his followers, a young girl called
Susan who shared his views and ambitions, and seemed willing to
share the rest of his life as well. Things were picking up speed,
he was having the time of his life, his ambitions seemed to be on
the verge of realization, the ultimate satisfaction was within
reach.
 Then at one point things started to turn sour © in more than
one sense.
     He felt anger take possession of him, barely controllable
fury, an unstoppable tide washing over him. Thinking back about
those depressing moments when everything he'd worked so hard for
had crumbled to dust always had this effect on him. Usually he
managed to repress these thoughts, but now Susan had triggered
them. If only he had more control over himself.
       Briskly he walked back the distance he had covered. As he
was about to go back inside he saw the abandoned car parked over
at the gas station, a mid©seventies VW Rabbit. It had been parked
there for several years now, and time had taken its toll. Rust
had had ample time to undermine the entire structure. Dust and
dirt had formed a layer thick enough to render the original color
of the car barely visible. Children had written their names into
the grime with their fingers, or had drawn silly faces. The car
had been growing old and dull and grey along with rest of the
neighborhood, had completely blended into it, become an integral
part of it.
    Jerry remembered that, way back, a guy had arrived here with
car trouble that couldn't be fixed, the car being old and about
to fall apart at the seams. So he had rented a car and had moved
on, promising to come back to pick up his own car soon. They were
still waiting for him. He had probably forgotten about this
shitty little town in the middle of nowhere, Jerry thought. And,
to be quite honest about it, I can't really blame him.
 Instead of going back inside, Jerry wandered up to the
rusting car, gleaming dully in the evening light. He felt the
anger, which hadn't quite died away yet but had become somewhat
easier to control, regain its intensity, flow electrifyingly
through his body. He just had to take it out on somebody or
something. There now was too much energy within him. He had to
relieve himself of it. And in a positive way. Furiously, he
kicked against the door of the car. Rust flew off of it, a large
dent appeared where his heel had hit the metal. There you go, he
thought. There's my autograph. Want some more? Just say so, pal.
The anger now turned into fury, intensified, and was directed at
this car, a symbol of life in this dreary old town, a symbol of
his own life rusting away here, turning grey and dull and morose.
It was the old, violent anger which was back in force, boiling in
his veins, the same passion he had felt burning within him in the
old days as he was carrying out a Black Fever mission, a
feverish, orgasm©like inner storm of white©hot intensity, a
liberating, cleansing rush of adrenalin.
       All at once he found himself dancing around the car, as if a
hyperkinetic puppeteer was pulling his strings in a maddening
rhythm, and he started kicking and hammering his fists into
every square inch of surface, until the car was reduced to a
battered, misshapen hulk. Then he paused only to swing open a
door, crawl inside, grope for the fire extinguisher under the
driver's seat, got back outside and began smashing all the car
windows, one by one, methodically, as if this was a task he had
been ordered to carry out as meticulously as possible. Then he
stepped back, threw the fire extinguisher away, and admired the
result of his work. It was perfect. Absolutely perfect. And, he
noted with pleasure, the anger was gone, and completely so. He
had needed this little exercice, this cathartic experience.
    Behind him, he could hear Susan's voice. "Is that you,
Jerry?" She must have heard the noise he'd been making, must have
grown worried something had happened.
  "It's me," he replied.
 "What's going on out there? What was that racket? Did you
see anything?" He turned around, saw her standing in the doorway,
peering at him in the fading light of nightfall. Apparently she
couldn't properly make out the car, couldn't see how he had
rearranged its appearance.
    "I've been thinking," he said, and slowly walked back
towards her.

3

 Jerry frowned when the man entered the restaurant. There was
something about his attitude and the way he looked that put him
off. Susan had a few hout was inevitable. Someone had to do something. We
can no longer risk using instant matter transmission for really
important missions. We lost too many people and valuable stuff in
the early days of the mega©network. A good thing people like you
came along."
   Kevin chuckled. He remembered very vividly what had
happened. The greatly enhanced matter transmission system had
proved to be an easy target for hordes of terrorists, political
and trade union radicalists, criminals, hackers, youth gangs and
joyriders. Innocent travellers and businessmen were zipped back
and forth around the world in maddening patterns. Clothes and
baggage soon became items better left behind to start with.
People were glad their bodies arrived in one piece © which wasn't
always the case, or if it did it might well be turned inside out.
A variety of security measures were taken : secret codes were
introduced, fingerprints and voice patterns had to be checked,
transmission control systems were installed, but each new measure
was promptly countered by the system's enemies. So inevitably the
system's users had started looking for an alternative. That was
where Kevin and a few other dropouts had seen their chance © and
they had grabbed it with both hands.
   He had laid hands on an old but still working truck and had
offered traditional transportation from his own New Jersey area
to New York and vice versa. The service he offered was slow and
expensive, but it was a lot safer than the mega©network. He had
discovered that rich businessmen were interested in his offer. So
with his first profits he had bought more cars and trucks, hired
some fellow dropouts as drivers and had gone from strength to
strength from there.
   In no time Kevin Portnoy was a transport tycoon. He now
owned a whole fleet of vehicles, and employed an ever growing
number of skilled drivers. He had purchased a few old aircraft
and could now offer flights to Washington and a few other cities,
where transportation by car would be provided by crews working
for him in those areas. Currently he was working on further
expansion. More and more cities ought to be graced with their
own Portnoy Airport soon. He would start hiring local crews in
all the cities he intended to add to his roster. And apart from
that, he planned to add a Portnoy Boat Company to his ever more
successful Portnoy Airlines. Business was in full swing, and
getting better every day. Customers turned to him in constantly
increasing numbers, and he was extremely pleased with his cashªflow situation.
 They had now reached New York's Portnoy Airport, and Kevin
drove the Landrover onto the private parking lot. A few other
vehicles with the Portnoy logo crudely painted on their doors
were already parked there. One of his employees came toward them,
smiling warmly.
        "Well, here we are then," Kevin said, as he and his customer
got out of the car. "I hope you'll have a pleasant trip to
Washington."
   "Wait a minute," Ramirez said, his voice edged with worry.
"My briefcase. It's still in the Rover, I suppose."
    "Oh," Kevin said, smiling his most conspirational smile.
"I'll check the baggage compartment. Just a second." With a
grand, sweeping gesture he opened the back of the Rover,
scrutinized the obviously empty baggage compartment, and turned
to face the increasingly alarmed Ramirez. "I'm afraid it's not
here."
 Ramirez swallowed uneasily. This was clearly very bad news.
"But... that's impossible! Anyway, I need my briefcase. It has
some valuables of extreme importance. That's why I chose not to
use instant transmission to Washington in the first place. How on
earth..." Ramirez looked hopelessly puzzled.
   Kevin spread his hands wide. "I guess I simply put it in the
wrong Rover back where we left. Each system has its glitches, you
know. Anyway, don't let it get to you. Look at me, look at where
I am now. Losing my briefcase is how it all started for me."
   Kevin smiled triumphantly. He had never enjoyed a sight more
than that of Ramirez's face as understanding dawned on him.


pwe change the subject, and we talked for a while about life in
general, but the atmosphere had turned sour. We both must have
felt it, for Jim presently said he really had to go now and we
parted company in a darker mood than we used to do. Yet I hoped
this wouldn't be our last meeting. No doubt, I thought as I
returned home, next time the good vibes will be back in force as
usual.

3

       I was living what seemed to be the most exciting time of my
life. Through my job I had met some people who could pull certain
strings and I was of the opinion they were sufficiently impressed
by my capabilities and might well be inclined to help me along.
For instance, someone had mentioned the possibility of an
assignment at college level, and another had even hinted at a one
or two year term at a European university if certain expectations
were met. Needless to say, I was thrilled at the very idea.
Furthermore, I had managed to get a few articles published in
trade journals, tangible proof that I was well on my way towards
an academic career.
    We had found a new house that met all our requirements and
would be moving soon. Preparations for this took up quite a bit
of our spare time. Marriage and the possibility of children were
looming ever larger on the horizon. Those were intensely happy
days.
  Due to the enormous amount of work, both for my job and in
my private life, I lost sight of Jim for a time, but then again
he didn't get in touch with me either. I assumed he was very busy
and had a lot on his mind. Still, after a number of weeks I began
to grow worried and thought of tracking him down. What finally
stirred me into action was a newspaper item Sheila showed me one
day, saying, "Isn't this about this friend of yours?"
  It was a short concert review of Jim's band Fast Buck, who
were apparently doing a tour to promote their debut album. I was
quite surprised to read that this was one of the band's first
appearances on stage with their new vocalist. That could only
mean something had




THE GARDEN WHERE TIME CRUMBLED TO DUST

by Frank Roger



 "Harry," she called out, "I think it's still going on," but
the wind, feeble as it was, carried away her words to where her
husband couldn't possibly hear them. She sighed, and tried to
ignore the fatigue her body was suffering from her short walk in
the garden. If even this short a walk was already too much for
her... Did this mean her condition was getting worse? And could
this in its turn mean a change was manifesting itself...?
      She shook her head, as if trying to shake off the
conflicting emotions that disturbed her peace of mind. Anger,
hopelessness, uncertainty. And, she'd better admit it, her
failure to understand. The strict and total impossibility to know
what on earth was happening to them. She just had to talk to
Harry about it, regardless of what he was up to at this moment.
        Slowly she walked down the gravel path to the patio where
Harry was always sitting. No doubt he had dozed off again. His
waking moments seemed to be growing ever more scarce. If this
went on she would be truly alone soon, accompanied by a perennial
sleeper. Unfortunately she knew of no way to stop this process.
With unsettling intensity, the realization dawned on her : what
did this evolution mean, and what did the very fact that there
was an evolution mean? It was simply mind©boggling. She just had
to talk to Harry about it, right now, even if this meant raising
him from his slumber. On the other hand, she had never been so
bold as to disturb his sleep in recent times. It seemed so
unwise. Who knew what the consequences of such a desperate act
might be?
      "Harry? Are you awake?" Her voice, already brittle with age,
trembled with concern. Maybe she shouldn't wake him. She had only
done so a few times, and that was so long ago she couldn't even
remember the last instance. It had turned out to spoil his
temper, his appetite, his entire day.
  To her relief she noticed she had worried in vain : Harry
had just been raised from his "short afternoon nap" as he
preferred to call it in a natural way, and now looked at her with
barely focussed eyes.
  "Yes, of course I'm awake," he said, and reached out for his
cup of tea beside him on the table. He brought the cup to his
lips and took a sip, then gently put the cup back down.
        "It's still hot," he said approvingly. "You see? I can't
have dozed off for a long time. How else could my tea still be
hot?" He looked her triumphantly in the eyes, a faint smile
creasing his lips.
     "You're obviously right," she said after a moment's
hesitation, not without difficulty. Would he never understand?
Would he ever do so much as notice? Wouldn't he ever listen to
what she had been trying to explain to him on so many occasions?
Maybe it would be wiser to give up altogether, but he took the
initiative out of her hands now by saying, "You wanted to tell me
something, darling?"
   She sighed. "Yes," she said, her voice as steady as she
could muster, "there's something I'd like to draw your attention
to. I've been observing the flowers, Harry, and I've noticed
something strange, something unsettling."
      Harry closed his eyes, and for a moment she feared he had
gone back to sleep. But then she heard him murmur, "Oh no, not
again. Do we have to go through all that again?"
       "Harry, please. I have this feeling it's of tremendous
importance."
   "Well, alright then, darling. I'm listening. Please tell me
what you have discovered." She could read the expression on his
face : weariness, because he was convinced these discussions were
leading nowhere, courteous acceptance of her insistance to let
him know about her findings, resignation at the inevitability of
all this.
      "Everything in the garden has stopped growing for a
considerable stretch of time by now. The grass, the flowers, the
trees. They all stay the way they are. It's as though time has
come to a standstill. I had noticed before how it all seemed to
be slowing down, but now it appears to have stopped altogether. I
don't understand it, Harry."
   "But darling, there's no need to worry. How many times need
I tell you that it's all in your mind? Everything's just fine.
It's all perfectly normal. Why don't you take it easy and sit
down and have a cup of tea?"
   He poured the two cups full of tea, set the pot back down
with a deep sigh of satisfaction. He closed his eyes and
whispered, "Oh darling, if only you knew how much I cherish these
peaceful moments we have here." He didn't reopen his eyes, and
after a while his slow and regular breathing told her he had gone
back to sleep. She left her tea, untouched, and went inside the
house, wandered aimlessly through room after room, all drenched
in silence.
    The entire house felt cold, as if nobody had lived here for
a long time. Yet there were no signs of neglect or poor
housekeeping, not even a thin layer of dust covering exposed
surfaces. The house was deprived of human warmth simply because
it had actually been empty for a long time. There was just the
two of them, and Harry had been in his chair on the patio for too
long to remember, whereas she had been in the garden, observing
and enjoying its atmosphere, basking in its breathtaking
splendor.
      Carefully she walked up the flight of stairs leading to the
bedroom. She cringed at the slight creaking of the stairs. Even a
faint sound like this seemed to shatter the deep silence. The
bedroom appeared to be even quieter and more devoid of life than
the rest of the house. She felt a mixture of shame and
embarrassment for disturbing the serenity as she crossed the room
to the window, gently pulled aside the heavy curtains and gazed
out at the garden below. Her eyes gradually lost focus and she
barely noticed what she was looking at as recollections came
flooding back of how it had all evolved like this.
     It had been a very slow process © so slow she had not been
aware of it at first. It had started when Harry had retired and
all of the daily routines and pressures could be discarded.
Rising early had no longer been required. Regular hours had
become unnecessary. At last they'd had the time and the freedom
to sit back and enjoy the days as they came. Slowly they lost
contact with the world outside © and to be quite honest, at the
time neither of them really cared. Society had been changing so
quickly, at a pace they had always found hard to keep up with.
The moment it had no longer been necessary to match its pace,
they had been all too glad to let the reins slip from their
fingers. Soon it had become impossible to catch up with society
at large.
      As they grew older, the chasm between the two of them and
the rest of the world grew wider. It might have been different if
they'd had any children. But, sadly enough, that was not the
case, and now it was of course too late to rectify that
situation. So their lives seemed to slow down. There were ever
fewer matters to lend a sense of activity to their days. The
housekeeping chores were attended to by a cleaning woman once a
week © in recent times she also did all the shopping.
  Harry spent more and more time on the patio, reading and
drinking tea. As time passed, the quantities of tea increased,
and his reading material dwindled away. She had spent more and
more of her time in the garden. Time went by © only it passed
ever more slowly, until she had discovered it had by now ground
to a virtual standstill.
       She couldn't remember the last time the cleaning woman had
come © although it wasn't apparent from the condition of the
house. Harry seemed to be frozen in his favorite time of the day.
He took a nap in his chair on the patio, sipping his tea every
now and then. Tea©time now stretched into infinity. And in her
garden nothing ever grew or changed anymore. Each time she talked
to him about it he had replied she merely imagined things were
wrong. It was all in her mind, he kept saying. As conclusive
evidence he relied on his tea, which didn't cool down, so the
eternity she had lived through was in reality obviously but a few
moments. It was no use indicating the flaw in his logic. By the
time she had explained that the hot tea was part of their
surroundings which were now frozen in time he had usually gone
back to sleep. But then she couldn't rule out the possibility
that he was right. If, as he claimed, it was all in her mind,
then how could she possibly determine the true nature of things?
       Of course, there was always the garden. She clearly had not
imagined what she had observed there. But was there a way to
convince him of her findings? Was there any undeniable proof for
her theory? If only she could bring him to go along with her in
the garden, see for himself how©
       She shook her head, as if waking up from an maddeningly
bizarre daydream. She refocussed her eyes, and saw what she had
been staring at, however unseeing.
     The garden! She had been standing here looking out over it
for a number of minutes, and only now she realized perhaps she'd
better go down and take a walk in her garden, just to check if
everything was alright. Maybe the lawn needed to be mown, some
dead leaves had to be removed, the hedge needed cutting or some
other task might have to be accomplished.
      All the recollections at once swept from her mind, she
crossed the bedroom, descended the stairs and walked straight
into the garden, inhaling the invigorating late afternoon air. At
first glance everything appeared to be perfectly normal, but then
she noticed with rising concern that there hadn't been the
slightest of changes compared to her previous visit. Flowers that
were about to spring into full bloom were still in that state of
their metamorphosis. A broken, dying leaf about to drop to the
ground was still exactly in that position. And these cases
weren't exceptional. A closer inspection taught her that this was
the general state of affairs. Her garden was no longer subject to
change, to the passing of time. This could only mean...
        She would have to talk to Harry about this.





THE ISLAND THAT STOLE MY HEART,
THE GIRL WHO BLEW MY MIND

by Frank Roger


1

        I'll never forget her.
 I'll never forget the night we spent together under the
stars, blazing in all their too©bright©to©be©real splendor, a
night of unbound passion and sensual delights etched indelibly
into my memory, a vortex of emotions and sensations whirling and
wheeling in my mind, removing the last remnants of rational
thought and cold reason. Her breath, hot against my cheeks; her
eyes, burning with intensity and ripping apart all my reserve ;
her dark hair, sweat©soaked strands curling around my neck and
shoulders and sticking to my face; her voice, melting away the
last vestiges of my resistance and my common sense. But let me
begin this story at its beginning.
     I had been working without any interruption to speak of for
about a year and a half in my office at Squire & Collins
Insurances, and stress had finally taken its toll. I had been
granted a three week vacation and had booked a trip to one of
those tropical holiday resorts widely advertised in one of the
colorful travel agency brochures I had sent for. "I think this is
exactly what you need," the professionally smiling blonde at
RelaxaTravel had told me. "I'm sure you'll come to rest here. The
hotels we work with offer everything you would expect from a
five©star all©inclusive vacation. Believe me, it will feel like
paradise. Stress will be a thing of the past. I can't recommend
this trip too highly."
 To be honest, I hadn't hesitated one single moment. I had
leaned back in the comfortable chair, had flashed the gorgeous
woman my brightest smile and booked a nine©day stay in Hotel
Tropicana. The hotel was located close to the immaculately white
beach of La Isla de San Felipe, the main island of a thinly
stretched string of islets forming the Cadena Turquesa
Archipelago in the Caribbean Sea.
      Mere minutes after my arrival and my first taste of San
Felipe's tropical attractions, palm trees waving in the breeze
coming in from the sea, the sun mercilessly beating down on my
skin from a perfect blue sky, the invigoratingly fresh air
filling my lungs, stress was already fading away into the
background, so vastly and radically different was this place from
my native Westport where I lived and worked.
   I was back in shape. I felt cleansed, truly alive for the
first time in months, virtually reborn. Things couldn't possibly
get better. And then, on the second day of my stay on San Felipe,
I saw Conchita, sipping from a cocktail in the hotel bar. We
locked eyes and in that instant I knew for a fact that I was
lost. There would be no way back here.
 She smiled the most inviting smile I had ever witnessed, and
I understood at once I was welcome to join her. Taking in the
sight from closeby of those dark eyes, ponds of human warmth
gently pulling me inside, the gracious curve of her lips, the jet
black hair streaming down her shoulders and reaching down to her
waist, left me speechless. "Hi," she said in heavily accented but
perfectly understandable English, "your first day on San Felipe?
I don't think I've seen you around here before."
       "Actually, it's my second day here," I corrected her. "But
I'm new here all right."
       "My name's Conchita," she said. "Where are you from?"
  "My name's Keith and I'm from Westport," I answered, still
too dazed by her appearance to realize that Westport's fame
could not possibly have spread this far. She didn't seem to mind.
Stockholm, Melbourne, Amsterdam, Westport : foreigners were very
much foreigners here.
  "Have you seen the island already?"
    "Not yet, but I plan to rent a car and do some sight©seeing
tomorrow. This place is said to be quite unique."
      "You'll love it," she said. "But don't you need a local
guide?"
        "You mean you'd like to join me?" This was too good to be
true. Her only reply was another smile of hers, which was enough
to make me exclaim, "I'll drink to that." I called the waiter,
ordered another daiquiri for her, and for me a "Diabolico", a
local cocktail she insisted every tourist just had to treat
himself to when coming to San Felipe for the first time in his
life.
  The "Diabolico" turned out to be as invigorating as the
woman who had suggested it. Each gulp of the sparkling, light
blue drink sent ripples of ecstasy throughout my body, setting
every cell aglow, radiating at once warmth and coolness. Every
few minutes I felt a peculiar tingling all over my skin, feverªlike in feel and intensity. Then my vision blurred a few times,
leaving me blinking in an effort to force my eyes back in focus,
while colors changed into lighter or darker shades and vaguely
glimpsed shapes passed through my field of vision. I attributed
these strange sensations to the fact that this cocktail was new
to my metabolism, and I hoped everything would soon be back to
normal. To my relief, that seemed to be the case.
      Conchita and I talked about my life and work ("No girl
waiting for you back in Westport? How is that possible?"), about
her work ("I'm a dancer in the fake folklore shows this hotel
puts up for tourists. I work here four nights a week. Today is
one of these, so I'll have to go in half an hour."), about
harmless subjects ("Do you like your room?") and trivial matters
in general ("I'm sure you'll have a pleasant vacation here.").
Then she excused herself, flashed me another of those heartªstopping smiles and promised to meet me next morning on the
hotel's parking lot. "I'll be there," I assured her, as if
anybody was likely to forget a date with her. I finished my
"Diabolico", enjoyed the tendrils of pure joy working their way
through my system, and went up to my room. I thought I could use
a good night's sleep. Who knew what tomorrow would have in store
for me? I intended to be ready and prepared for everything,
whatever the challenge I would be expected to rise to.






2

        Words fail me.
 I simply can't describe what I thought and felt while
exploring La Isla de San Felipe in my four©wheel driven Nissan
with Conchita next to me.
      Let me approach it this way : a handful of impressions,
rather than a straight narrative. Glimpses of moments and
sensations and discoveries, snapshots of the most intense period
of my life, however short. These might provide a fair overview of
what I went through.
   Here we go then.
       A scene on the beach, Conchita embracing me, whispering in
my ear, "Black coral. There's some kids over there selling black
coral. It's the perfect souvenir to take back home. Buy some
black coral, Keith?"
   I want to say that the memories of my time spent with her
are a far more powerful and emotionally©charged souvenir, but I
find it impossible to protest and let her tug me along, shouting
at the two black kids, who come running over to us, thrusting
pieces of black coral at me, twinkling eyes, sparkling white
teeth bared in friendly smiles, and I shell out my dollars for
some authentic black coral for friends at home to marvel at,
happy because these kids deserve to make a buck and I had been
thinking of bying souvenirs anyway and rejecting Conchita's
suggestions would have been an act of very bad taste indeed and I
really wasn't going to take all those dollars back home with me,
was I?

      Later, that same day.
  We're driving around the island, the wind blowing through
our hair, the humid tropical noon heat hanging tangible in the
air, and suddenly Conchita grabs my arm, says, "Pull over," a
friend of hers turns out to run a shop down there in the center
of Santa Fidelidad, the small town we're passing through, and we
pay this little store a visit, a tiny room crammed full of pieces
of art and craftsmanship, highly valuable stuff, including some
genuine collector's items, dating back to pre©colonization days,
and this friend of hers, all smiles and friendly chatter and
pattings on my shoulder, tells me he'll offer me something very
special, me being a friend of Conchita's, and we're both aweªstruck and utterly delighted as he produces an authentic ancient
Indian pipe which I buy for a relatively moderate price
considering its actual value, and then he calls my attention,
pauses dramatically and suggests in a conspiratorial whisper that
for only a little more money he would be willing to throw in a
little extra which is not supposed to be sold to tourists, and
dollars change hands and I become the privileged owner of a
stuffed five©legged lizard, a rare mythical beast native to the
island that the Indians used to include in their darkest
religious ceremonies, and both Conchita and I are bubbling with
enthusiasm as we leave the store, she embracing me as if I am her
last hope in life, I clutching my purchases as if they're my
passport to true happiness, and we get back into the car and
speed off, hungry for further exploration of our newfound
paradise, desperate to savor all its flavors before time runs
out.

    Later that night.
      We've driven all around the island with reckless abandon,
stopping only for pictures and kisses and the odd drink or snack,
until the onset of twilight urges us to return to my hotel. I
invite her for dinner at the hotel restaurant and kindly offer to
pick up her bill, which she gladly accepts. After the delicious
meal, a choice sampling of Mexican and Caribbean specialties,
whose generously used spices set my tongue and palate on fire, we
retreat to my room for the night.
      The well©stocked mini©bar can barely cope with our combined
onslaught. Further into the night, moving through an alcoholic
haze, we take all the cushions and pillows and make ourselves
comfortable on the balcony, preferring the dazzling brilliance of
the star©strewn Caribbean night sky to the clinical airªconditioned atmosphere of my room as a backdrop for our amorous
endeavors. We reach the very pinnacle of passion. Never has loveªmaking been this intense. Never have I known a woman more
intimately, has the experience been this fulfilling. This was the
kind of night that I believed existed solely in books and movies.
This was what being alive was all about. I knew for a fact that I
would treasure these moments forever, that the rest of my life
was bound to be a pitiful anticlimax, that because of this the
next morning would be edged with a touch of sadness.
   I turned out to be right © but in a totally different way
than I had expected.




3

     The next morning brought pain rather than sadness.
     I woke up in my bed, alone, hung©over, my head throbbing as
if it was about to explode, my limbs aching as if I had run all
around the island rather than driven, my eyes burning like
ulcers. It took me an hour or more to force myself upright on my
elbows, and laboriously work my way out of the bed, casting the
sweat©soaked and crumpled sheets aside. I managed to stand on
wobbly legs, shaking my head in a vain effort to get rid of the
dull pain, and shuffled clumsily towards the bathroom.
 I will not attempt to describe what I saw in the mirror. Let
me simply say that my outward appearance matched the way I felt.
I took a shower, and almost choked on the hot water, decided not
to raze my stubbly chin and cheeks and to skip breakfast, the
former because in my condition I might well have killed myself in
the process, and the latter because the mere idea of food led to
convulsions.
   I quickly discovered that my money and my camera had
disappeared along with Conchita. Fortunately my credit card was
still there, along with my souvenirs, the black coral and the
pipe and the stuffed lizard. It took me all day to get back in
shape © and then I'm speaking in relative terms.
       For one reason or other I have only the vaguest of
recollections of the rest of my stay on the island. I can't have
done more than recover from my disappointment and feelings of
encroaching despair, purposelessly wandering around the beach,
buying soft drinks in the hotel bar, and basically killing time
in the most unimaginative ways possible. Those days are a blur of
dim memories, murky scenes glimpsed through a grime©smeared
window.
        I was glad when the day arrived I had to get to the airport,
and relieved as I boarded the plane that would bring me back
home.

Ã **Ã4

        I didn't exactly talk at length about my trip to relatives
and friends and colleagues. As my camera had been stolen, I had
no pictures to show around either. I decided to keep my memories
to myself, but I chose to make an exception for my long©time
friend Alan, a bachelor, like me, and a well©travelled and
worldly©wise man, rather unlike me, who might be able to clear up
some of the confusion that reigned in my mind.
 One evening he came over, listened to my story and casually
studied the souvenirs I showed him. He shook his head,
incomprehending.
       I was no idiot, he told me. How could I have fallen for all
these obvious traps? He simply failed to understand. Hadn't I
read newspapers, magazine articles, travel guides, anything? I
admitted my busy workdays left me little time for leisure, which
was why I had found it necessary to escape to San Felipe in the
first place.
   Rich tourists, he patiently explained me, are obvious
targets for these poor and understandably envious third world
natives. And I had allowed myself to be a very easy prey indeed.
He hadn't heard of San Felipe, but he knew the area fairly well
in general, and assumed practices were the same all over the
place.
   Unsuspecting tourists were often given cocktails containing
barbiturates or hallucinogens or other 'special' ingredients, so
they could easily be robbed. A wide range of fake souvenirs was
offered, and presented as authentic. Alan studied the pipe I had
bought for a moment, dismantled it into its component parts and
showed me an inscription on one of them reading "Made in Taiwan".
He held a lit match to the rim of the piece of black coral, and
shot me a pitying glance as the plastic the coral was actually
made of started to melt and drip onto the table. He held the
five©legged lizard in his hand for a few moments, while thinking,
as if the animal would yield its secrets after having had to face
him for a certain stretch of time, and then Alan said he vaguely
remembered an article he'd read about mutated animals in a region
where nuclear tests had been carried out for several years.
Apparently they were hunted and killed by clever con men and
shipped to holiday resorts where they were offered as ultra©rare
or sacred or mythological creatures to easily fooled tourists. He
would try to find that article and send me a xerox copy of it.
 How could I have fallen for all these obvious traps? How
could I have believed that this Conchita girl had really loved me
rather than my money? How could I have been so incredibly naive?
       This is what stress does to a man, I replied in a feeble
attempt to defend myself, but I didn't even sound convincing to
my own ears.
   We parted company, still good friends despite everything,
and life resumed its normal course. A week later, a newspaper
clipping arrived. It was the article Alan had promised to look up
for me, and it backed up his explanation. I hardly paid any
attention to it. I had no longer any time for such matters. I had
gone back to work and was as busy as before.
   My trip to San Felipe was a thing of the past, tucked away
in a far corner of my memory.
  Apart from Conchita, who still occasionally haunted me in
my dreams.

Ã **Ã5

   As time passed, Conchita appeared in my dreams with
increasing frequency, and also started to invade my waking
moments. All of a sudden, at work or during lunch, I would see
her face in front of my mind's eye and lapse into a daydream.
  As her presence in my consciousness grew more intense, I
realized that however much littered with fakes my trip to San
Felipe might have been, at least Conchita had been very much
real. I had seen her before drinking the "Diabolico", so even if
this brew had contained hallucinogens, which was not more than a
theory anyway, I couldn't possibly attribute her existence to my
drug©induced subconscious cravings for a perfect woman or
anything like that. Conchita had been real. She was a living,
breathing woman. I had met her once. I could meet her again if I
wanted to. And as she was haunting me more and more, my longing
to resume my relationship with her grew into an all




IMPERFECT HANDICAP

by Frank Roger



     Hank knew he was being watched. No doubt this building was
crammed with carefully hidden video cameras, and his every step
and movement were being followed on monitor screens. So he had to
be extremely alert. The smallest of mistakes might be fatal. He
would have to keep his nerves under control at all cost, but then
there was so much at stake and things were never easy in such a
situation.
     Cautiously he walked across the Employment Bureau's foyer.
People were minding their own business, and nobody seemed to even
notice him. At one point he stopped so a man in a wheelchair
crossing his path could pass. The man shot him a probing look,
then nodded virtually imperceptibly by way of thanks and
continued on his way. An Employment Bureau executive? Most
probably, Hank thought, and walked on. He was supposed to meet
Mr. Marriman at 10:30, so he still had ten minutes. No need to
hurry. No reason to get nervous. So far everything had went
smoothly.
      When he finally arrived at Marriman's office he took a few
deep breaths. Intense concentration would be called for! Although
Marriman was known as an experienced and smart employment
counsellor not easily fooled around with, Hank felt he was
sufficiently prepared to stand a fair chance at success. He just
had to get one of those priviliged jobs. He didn't exactly fancy
the idea of doing hard labor for the rest of his life at minimum
wages. And all that simply because he had been born without a
handicap. That's life, some people said, and docilely accepted
whatever was imposed on them.
  Others, like his brother Tom, chose to play along with the
game by mutilating themselves in a staged accident so they would
be allowed to join the privileged class of the handicapped and
benefit from all the corresponding social advantages, but Hank
couldn't force himself to do that. His self©respect just didn't
allow him to. Instead of accepting the system or humiliating
himself, he had opted for undercover©type rebellion, infiltrating
the system surreptitiously so that he could operate from within.
Sneaking his way into the privileged caste of the handicapped
with a simulated handicap and benefitting from all the advantages
he wasn't really entitled to was more his style!
       Of course you had to be on your guard all the time. Those
whose cover was blown were severely punished, and especially here
in the Employment Bureau they were out to catch "antisocial
frauds". Marriman wouldn't be easy to fool, no doubt about that.
       A few moments later he was sitting in Marriman's opulent
office. The man studied him silently, his single eye peering at
him with suspicion. The other eye was covered with an elegantly
embroidered patch. Every few seconds he shrugged his left
shoulder, which sprouted a little stump instead of an arm, a
twitch that quickly got on Hank's nerves. Possibly Marriman was
doing this on purpose. There was an eerie silence in the office,
until Marriman rolled back his wheelchair, as if to increase the
distance he clearly wished to keep between them, and said with a
croaking voice, "So you're unemployed and you think you're
entitled to a privileged job."
 "That is correct."
     "And you claim to meet all the conditions."
    "I think I do."
        "Then I assume you are blessed with a recognized handicap?"
This was the crucial moment. Now he would have to put up a
convincing show.
       "I am. My left arm is paralyzed, totally unusable."
    "I see."
       So far, so good. He'd played the game very cleverly. Some
handicaps were damn hard to simulate convincingly. But a
paralyzed arm... Of course a medical examination would reveal any
fake handicap instantly, but a handicapped person was entitled to
refuse a medical examination. Such an examination would cause
discomfort, and was found to be humiliating. In this society all
laws and regulations had been devised by an elite of handicapped
persons, and a clever fraud knew how to play the game along and
beat the system with its own weapons. Marriman would have to test
his handicap in a non©official way, by asking questions and using
tricks and careful observation. Hank knew for a fact that his
every move had been recorded by video cameras ever since he had
set foot in the Bureau.
        He had prepared himself for this occasion for days on end,
had rehearsed a whole series of actions without making any use of
his left arm. He had banished this part of his body from his
mind so that it had almost become paralyzed and useless in
reality. Only with a merciless training program could you let a
faked handicap pass for a real one. He had shown no mercy for
himself © but then others would show no mercy either, that much
was for sure.
  For a moment it was chillingly quiet in the office. Only a
faint humming could be heard, no doubt some machine that was
switched on. Squinting, as if trying to watch him even more
closely, Marriman suddenly said, "Could you take a look at
these?" and pushed a few sheets of paper towards him.
  Hank sat upright to study the material, and then it
happened. The right side of his chair tilted upwards with such
sudden force that he would have been thrown to the floor if he
hadn't grabbed hold of Marriman's desk... with his left hand!
Dammit! He'd blown it! No doubt this chair had been devised and
built for this very purpose, and had been preprogrammed so that
Marriman (or some invisible collaborator of his) only had to key
in a code. This method was a new one. He hadn't heard about it,
and so hadn't been prepared for it. He had acted in a reflex, and
reflexes tended to be so damned irrational. All his training had
been in vain.
  The chair reverted to its original position. Hank quickly
pulled back his hand © as if it still mattered.
        "I'm afraid I'll have to call the police," Marriman said
coolly. "This is a serious case of fraud."
     As Marriman was saying these words, Hank bolted out of the
office as if possessed, darted through the corridor, and stormed
whirlwind©like towards the exit, knocking down some people who
happened to cross his path in the process. Only a quick©asªlightning style of escape could keep him out of the hands of the
police now. He had no idea what to do after that. For the time
being, running like hell was all that mattered.
      When he was finally back on the sidewalk he wondered where
to go. Back home? They could easily catch him there. Staying
around here would be sheer madness of course, so he ran off in a
randomly chosen direction.
     Panic engulfed him as he noticed that he was being followed
by a black van. When it had reached him, he saw it matching his
pace and a window being rolled down. A voice yelled, "Looking for
a place to hide, pal? Get in." A door was shoved open, and as his
panic made way for amazement and relief he followed the advice.
The van sped off with unknown destination.

Ã **Ã*

   "Coffee?"
      "Yes, please." Hank started to feel more at ease. During the
mad ride he had been given a short explanation already. His
rescuers belonged to an underground resistance movement that had
declared war to the "terror of handicapped©dictatorship". The
area around the Employment Bureau was one of the places where
they were on the lookout for new recruits. Whoever came darting
out of it just had to be a fraud caught in the act, and that was
the type of people they needed.
        Hank sipped from his coffee, put the cup back and looked at
the man across the table through the graciously swirling trails
of vapor. This scene reminded him eerily of what had happened in
Marriman's office. He was welcome here, he had been told, but
they needed to find out if he showed the right profile before he
would be allowed to join the movement. We have to be extremely
careful, they had argumented. You just don't invite anyone to
join the resistance. No doubt he would understand. As a matter of
fact he did, but still this method reminded him, chillingly, of
those used by the Employment Bureau.
   "Well," the man who had been introduced to him as Hoekstra
said, "I suppose you're feeling better already? Hank, if I caught
your name correctly?"
  Hank nodded.
   "Allow me to ask you a few questions, Hank. What do you
think of the way this society treats its non©handicapped
citizens? Do you approve?" Hoekstra leaned back in his chair, as
if this would grant him a better view of his interviewee.
      "We're being discriminated," Hank said. "It's simply unfair
that a major portion of the population isn't getting its proper
share, and because of something they're not responsible for.
Sadly, it's the handicapped who are wielding the power."
       "Hmm. Can't this situation be explained from its historical
background?"
   "That's the argument they're always using," Hank said, his
voice rising in pitch. He felt the tension mounting within him.
Feelings of hatred and frustration, harbored for years, rose to
the surface. For a moment he tried to keep himself in check, then
decided that given the circumstances it might be better to give
free rein to his emotions. Probably that would be the kind of
behavior Hoekstra was expecting. "Look, I admit there've been
times the handicapped were the discriminated ones. They've worked
themselves up, step by step, steadily improved their social
position and their power until they could take over, and then
they simply turned the tables on us. That should never have
happened! They just went too far. They grew obsessed with the
power they had acquired. They're a political caste now, doing
everything they can to consolidate their power, at the expense of
the oppressed mass of non©handicapped persons who they consider
to be their enemies. We're the enemy! We're a threat, we're
menacing their world order, we have to be contained!" In the
fire of his passion he slammed his fist a few times on the desk,
thereby knocking over his cup of coffee. The hot liquid got
splashed all over the desk and dripped down to the floor. The
accident had made him interrupt his flow of words, and Hoekstra
was quick to grab the opportunity.
     "That'll do, Hank, that'll do nicely. And don't worry about
the coffee. I'll deal with it. I think we can accept you within
our organization. We just don't know yet where precisely you
might fit in our hierarchy."
   "I see," Hank said. He had regained his calm already.
  Hoekstra rummaged between a stack of papers, then produced a
document and a pen. "Please put your name and signature under the
picture."
      Hank took the document and the pen, noticed that the picture
showed two men kissing each other. He frowned. What was this
supposed to mean? He started writing down his name, hesitated,
cast Hoekstra a worried glance.
        "Never mind," Hoekstra said, "your reactions tell us all we
need to know."
 Surprised, Hanks asked, "What do you mean?"
    "You took the pen with your right hand, so you're clearly a
non©left©handed person."
       Hank felt a chill take possession of him.
      "Apart from that," Hoekstra continued, "that picture didn't
exactly fill you with pleasure, so I assume you are also nonªgay."
        "That's true," Hank admitted. "Is it a problem?"
       "Left©handedness and homosexuality aren't recognized
handicaps in our society. People who are blessed with these
characteristics deviate from the norm, but they are still denied
the benefits a "real" handicap would grant them. Still, within
this vast mass of non©handicapped people they're outcasts because
they're different, they're a minority looked upon as inferior.
Within our own organization we try to remedy this discrimination
by reserving upper echelon positions to left©handed and gay
persons, and the absolute top level to people who combine these
two traits. I hope you can see the logic of our reasoning."
    Hank nodded. He understood all too well what was in store
for him.




WHAT'S GOING ON, JUANITA?

by Frank Roger



1

     Your hair! My God, Juanita, Mick Newfield thought, staring
at the TV screen in horror, What have you done to you hair? The
words his favorite TV announcer was speaking barely registered in
his mind, and only when the shock started to wear off he felt
ready to try and make sense of the unexpected image he was now
facing.
        Mick swallowed, braced himself and peered incredulously at
Juanita's startlingly new appearance. He hadn't been
hallucinating, and hadn't mistaken this blonde young woman for
someone else who vaguely resembled the one he had expected to
see. This was Juanita Cavalera alright, the breathtakingly
good©looking girl who had become the focal point of his life,
dominating his every move and thought.
 He froze the image, closed his eyes and conjured up before
his mind's eye Juanita as she had appeared to him until
recently. Richly hued auburn locks, cascading graciously down
her neck and shoulders, reflecting the studio spotlights every
time she moved or gently inclined her head. He opened his eyes
and contrasted the mental image to the one still filling the
screen, frozen in mid©smile. Juanita's hair had been cut very
short, uncovering her delicately shaped ears and her forehead, an
extremely unusual and even unsettling sight. Also she'd had her
hair dyed blonde. This would definitely take some getting used
to.
    Of course she had changed her hairdo and her appearance in
general at regular intervals in the past few years, but there had
never been a change of hair©dressing this drastic. Mick didn't
like it. He knew these things took time to get used to, but deep
down he felt his disapproval would remain undiminished no matter
how much time would pass.
      Mick pressed the play button and Juanita stirred back into
life, announcing programs in that sweet voice of hers, her
heart©warming smile firmly prominent as ever, but he was too
preoccupied to pay attention to what she was saying.
   I'll have to do some reprogramming, he thought. Fortunately
I've assembled quite a bit of footage featuring the old Juanita,
the way she used to look, the way she was supposed to look. I'll
have my VCR cut down seriously on the new©look Juanita, he
decided. I'll tell it to intersperse all its recordings from now
on with bits of old©style Juanita, culled from my extensive
video library, until I think I'm ready to accept this new
situation. Maybe if I make the change a gradual one, if I slowly
reduce the doses of old©style Juanita and step up new©style
Juanita accordingly, I'll be able to live with it.
     Juanita's face had by now been replaced by a stream of
commercials. Usually he watched these with intense concentration,
riveted to the screen, paying close attention to the most minute
details and taking notes mentally of all aspects that struck him
about each individual commercial, such as story©line, camera
moves, use of color, snippets of dialog, background music,
editing tricks or sheer visual innovations, but this time he
lacked the peace of mind required for a serious study of the
material being presented. He grew irritated with the swirl of
dazzling images and the aural rapid©fire of sales pitches and
sound effects, and switched off the VCR in disgust.
    He would reprogram his computer©controlled VCR so that its
selections stuck very close to his tastes. These last few weeks
he had noticed that a number of commercials failed to interest
him altogether, especially clips promoting items of little
interest to him. As he now had to reprogram, he might as well
arrange for a stricter commercials selection as well, redefining
the criteria to be applied so as to fit his preferences more
rigidly. It was a natural evolution, he thought. Old memories of
bygone days came flooding back, when he still watched TV programs
as they were broadcast. That method left you no choice but to
watch what was presented. If you didn't like what was on offer,
you could only switch to another channel © where you'd be facing
exactly the same problem.
      So he'd started recording everything on video, which allowed
him to skip the parts he found uninteresting. The news : too
depressing. Documentaries : downright boring. Movies : too longªwinding, or too difficult, or simply impossible to get into. Even
games and sports, too low on visual excitement. He did appreciate
the commercials, however. They were short and snappy and not too
heavy and he could relate to them. And of course he did
appreciate Juanita. So much so that he'd joined her fanclub. He'd
started programming his VCR so that it recorded only what he
liked. This was perfectly possible with the new generation of
computer©driven models.
 He'd learned from the other Juanita fans posting messages on
her fanclub's own bulletin board that more and more people
reverted to this method. Come to think of it, he'd better post a
message right now, asking the others what their thoughts were on
Juanita's new look. Would he really be the only one to
disapprove? That seemed hardly likely. Didn't people prefer the
things in life they liked the most to stay the way they were?
  He collected his thoughts, logged in and started to type.

Ã **Ã2

    Mick was glad he could call it a day. Collecting and
processing statistical data for a variety of companies and
services and delivering the material in an easily accessible and
publishable format for approximately six hours a day was a
gruelling job, and he'd reached burnout a number of years ago,
but there were undeniable advantages which kept him going. It was
a relatively steady job, and fairly well©paid, and he could do it
without leaving his apartment. There was also the fact that he
wouldn't know what other line of work to transfer to, if there
would be other jobs available to him at all. Still, that didn't
mean he enjoyed the actual work.
       Browsing through the messages on Juanita Cavalera Fanclub's
bulletin board and watching his prime selection of commercials
and Juanita's appearances as a rule saved the day for him, made
him feel truly alive, had become vital elements of his very
survival. And this time he was especially eager to immerse
himself in the fanclub's electronic forum, itching to see the
responses his message might have triggered.
     He was relieved to see that most members of Juanita's
fanclub strongly disapproved of the radical change in their
idol's appearance. As a matter of fact, he concluded as he was
skimming the latest batch of messages, not one single member
applauded Juanita's new look, or expressed even some mild
acceptance of her decision to go for a radical change. As his
frenzied agitation died away, and he read and reread the messages
more carefully he discovered some members went to considerable
lengths in expressing their shock and dismay over Juanita's
metamorphosis.
 Rick had written, for instance, "Pardon me if I sound
disrespectful, but I'm afraid Juanita has reached the pinnacle of
bad taste. This is an abomination. We really ought to voice some
formal protest." There was something to be said for this
proposal. Stan wondered, "What's next? A crew©cut? The skinhead
look? Is she out to drive us completely crazy? Can't we do
something about this?" Stan was clearly exaggerating, but a
hyper©emotional attitude was certainly understandable under the
present circumstances.
 Others had opted for a more personal angle, like Bill who
had offered, "If I had a girlfriend who did this to me, I'd walk
out on her." A highly irrational line of thinking, that could
only occur in the minds of people constantly lost in daydreams
and romantic fantasies like Bill. How could the man imagine
having a girlfriend like Juanita? Tony, on the other hand, easily
depressed as usual, even admitted to considering suicide, "as the
certainties of life were being taken away one by one." Mick was
fairly sure Tony wasn't serious about bringing an end to his
life, but merely used this morbid metaphor to express his severe
distress.
      Mick was under the impression that these reactions might
have been considerably less strong, if Juanita's change had been
a more gradual one. But of course, it hadn't, and they would all
have to live with the situation as it was.
     Satisfied that he wasn't alone with his criticism and sense
of shock, he logged out and switched on his TV, eager to watch
today's selection of recorded material, the first batch compiled
applying the new criteria he had fed into the system. He was only
mildly pleased with the result. As had been ordered, the new©look
Juanita appeared only a few times, and for very short fragments
at that. Old footage had been liberally cut into today's
material, and he felt secure in the knowledge that his peace of
mind would soon be restored.
   Still there was something odd about the commercials. It was
no radical change, nothing easily pinned down, nothing as
disturbing or for that matter as obvious as Juanita's courseªcorrection, but it had a surreptitiously unnerving effect on him
anyway. A lot of stuff was fairly standard material, pushing
state©of©the©art hi©fi or video or computer equipment (the
psychedelic color shifts and dazzling graphics displayed in the
clip for Atari's latest stuff deserved special mention), some
new releases on CD or laserdisc (nice touch, that gut©wrenching
soundscape glimpsed in Vor©Techs' recent charts contender), a
string of food and soft©drinks brands (excellent special effects
for that apocalyptic city serving as background in Coke's latest
effort). But then there was the one, for example, about a "kingªsize refrigerator" that could contain supplies for up to several
months and ran on rechargeable batteries. What the hell was that
supposed to mean? Who would like to buy such a mega©fridge? And
the "special protective clothing"? Protecting its user against
what? It just made no sense to him. Were these clips perhaps
jokes, a type of humor that somehow escaped him? He would mention
the problem in his next message on the bulletin board.

Ã **Ã3

       His reprogramming had been no good, and so he had decided to
feed a revised version into his computer. From now on all
Juanita's appearances had to be deleted, and replaced by preªhaircut footage from his vast collection. He still experienced
the new©look Juanita as unsettling, and his displeasure was
furthermore enhanced by the increasing amount of commercials
urging him to buy stuff he found disturbing or puzzling or
downright frightening. Some of these were well done (Sprizzle's
new soft©drink containing "not©unreasonably©illegal hallucinogens
that will wash away all your worries and woes in a kaleidoscope
of surreal sensations" had something going for it), and he would
have shown deep appreciation if their subject matter hadn't been
so off©putting.
        Let's see if any other members out there share my frame of
mind, he thought as he logged in. A week had gone by now since
the drastic haircut, and it still dominated all the conversations
the members were engaged in. "There seem to be few of us left,"
Mark had written, "who still bother to watch current©style
Juanita, and although in principle I refuse to turn to the past
for my contacts with Juanita I understand that this evolution is
inevitable, and I will, however grudgingly, follow suit." Mark
had always seemed so open©minded and passionate about his
relationship with Juanita, so Mick found his words exceptionally
forceful.
      "I feel happy when watching Juanita's performances prior to
this dismal event, and isn't happiness what I joined the fanclub
for?" Bob had written. "My happiness is too precious to waste,
even if it is Juanita herself who would be responsible for my
descent into abject gloom." Bob was right. However strong their
undying love for Juanita was, they could not allow her to take
away what they all held so dear.
       Then there was this striking entry from Tom : "Although I
largely prefer Juanita's old looks, I could live with the new
one. However, the last few days all the announcements were made
by another girl. No reason for this replacement was given. I
looked for Juanita on all the other channels, but my efforts were
in vain. Has anybody had more success than I? This matter ought
to be thoroughly checked out. Keep me posted!" He didn't know Tom
well enough to determine whether this was an alarming piece of
news, a stupid mistake or a joke perpetrated in extremely bad
taste. Still, he would keep in mind to check on this matter.
   And finally, an item referring directly to his own message,
coming from Carlos : "I fail to understand why our friend Mick is
worried about some commercials that seem to disturb his peace of
mind. Haven't we got enough problems concerning Juanita? And
aren't these overwhelmingly more important than the minor
quibbles plaguing poor old Mick? Let us please stick to the major
issues that this bulletin board was created for : a network
allowing fans of Juanita to share their thoughts and emotions
for this marvellous girl. I'm not saying we should completely ban
anything not directly related to Juanita, but there are certain
limits that can't be exceeded." Carlos had a point, but Mick felt
his problem was a legitimate one, and if he couldn't turn to his
fellow Juanita fans for help and advice and explanations, then
who should he address? If anyone out there was able to understand
him and offer help, it was the people who shared his love, his
guiding light, his reason to live. He would expand on this matter
in his next message, ask the others for their opinion, invite
them to participate in a wide©ranging discussion.
      Frantically, he set to work, gathering his thoughts and
making notes. Somehow he knew this matter was of vast importance
and concerned them all. He shouldn't waste any time.

Ã **Ã4

 Another week had gone by, and Mick found himself spending
more and more time writing entries for the bulletin board or
reading and studying the other members' contributions, and
watching each day's recordings for ever shorter periods of time.
He was no longer the only one to note unusual material on TV. As
a matter of fact, the fanclub seemed to have reached a consensus:
certain patterns were manifesting themselves that disturbed
their lives.
   Alan said, "I've had problems with my food supplies.
Sometimes I want to send for some stuff and I can't seem to get
my order through by e©mail. Or when I do, the ordered supplies
are delivered late, or incompletely, or not at all and I have to
re©order. I've started ordering more than I actually need so I
can stack some stuff away for emergencies. Can anybody tell me
what the hell is going on out there? Am I the only one to suffer
these problems? As if Juanita's degradation wasn't enough."
    Of course Alan wasn't the only victim of recent
developments. And his message was typical in that it mentioned
Juanita only in passing. Some messages didn't mention her at all,
a situation totally inconceivable mere days ago. People were
being driven mad, and nobody seemed to have an explanation ready.
      An interesting idea came from Bill : "Does anyone remember
what our friend Mick did to avoid being faced with new©look
Juanita? Well, I suggest we do the same thing with the other
disturbing material we're seeing. So those of us who watch
commercials or games or sitcoms, just reprogram your VCR rig and
cull from your archives."
      "Still no trace of Juanita ever since her disappearance from
the screen some time ago," Tom offered. "I'm worried. Of course
we can watch Juanita twenty©four hours a day if we really want by
rerunning our old recordings, but that leaves this burning
question unanswered : what's happened to her? How can we find
out? Will we ever find out?"
   And then there was this chilling bit from Steve, words
clearly written in bleakest despair : "Maybe these massive
problems we're facing should be countered with drastic measures.
We have to do something. Can anyone for instance get in touch
with other groups' bulletin boards, ask them questions, compare
notes? Can anyone try to find some channel that features news
flashes and inform us of what he's found out, if anything? Can
anyone please do something, anything?"
 Drastic measures indeed! Did Steve realize what he was
saying? Gaining entry into other bulletin boards! Mick knew
litera




A LIVING LEGEND SIGNS OFF

Frank Roger



 This was one of those rare privileges, to be granted an
interview with the man who has declined to do interviews and has
avoided all contact with the media for so long. It is unclear why
I was singled out to perform the duties, but that is of little
importance. When you are told Jimi Hendrix has announced his
retirement from the music scene, after a career spanning more
than half a century, and has added he will speak to one, and
only one carefully selected journalist, and you are told you are
that privileged one, you do not wonder. You simply catch your
breath and go for it.
  So there I suddenly found myself facing one of today's
living legends, in a lavishly furnished room in San Francisco's
most expensive hotel. As I was ushered in, I saw Hendrix rise
from his comfortable chair, extending his hand and smiling that
enigmatic smile of his. He greeted me warmly, in his typical
soft©spoken, self©effacing way, and we sat and talked. I will not
add much apart from what was actually said. I take it the words
speak for themselves.


        You've just announced your retirement from the music
business. What prompted that decision? The simple fact that
you've reached the venerable age of seventy? Or were there other
considerations as well?

Hendrix : As you say, there's more than one reason. I think that
I've reached a point in my life where going on would make no
sense. My job is done. I've said all I wanted to say, done all I
wanted to do. From now on I can do without the studios and the
stages and all that jazz.

     I seem to detect a note of bitterness in your voice. Could
it be that, rather than arriving at a stage where you feel like
calling it a day, you were growing sick and tired of it all?

Hendrix (sits back, licks his lips and ponders the question for
an instant before answering) : Well, I suppose you could say
there's a number of things about the current scene that I'm none
too happy with, but I can assure you I wasn't fed up with my own
stuff. It's just that the well seemed to be running dry after all
those years. I've reached the end of the line. It's as simple as
that.

 How do you look back on your career and your achievements?
How do you view your own influence, how do you look upon the
music made by those who claimed to be inspired by you?

Hendrix (smiling his enigmatic smile again) : Ever since my early
days, I set out to chart new ground. I played like nobody else
had ever played, did things no one else had thought of. I tried
to come up with something new. Of course I had my own influences,
but at least I tried to be original. This may sound terribly
pretentious, but I tend to think of myself as an innovator.

   No doubt you are. But what about all the artists who
followed in your wake? You exerted quite an influence on a vast
number of them, considering the period of time you dominated the
scene.

Hendrix (raising his arms as if in despair) : I don't understand
most of these guys. They're not for real, if you know what I
mean. Do you want me to spell it out for you? It's one thing to
be inspired by someone, but you have to take it one step further.
Most of the guys who followed in my tracks didn't do that. They
simply took my stuff and reused it for their own purposes. That
way all my original ideas were quickly reduced to formulas. And
I've had a fair number of original ideas over the years, don't
you think?

    Absolutely. Your stage antics, for instance, at the onset of
your career, which were quite revolutionary for their age.

Hendrix (clearly amused) : You bet they were. Playing my guitar
behind my back or with my teeth and setting it on fire were
pretty wild ideas in those days, but I suppose you'll agree that
I did some bolder stuff later on. I headlined the first ever rock
festival in China. That was quite something. It didn't exactly go
unnoticed. (Chuckles.)

        You can say that again. The social unrest and upheavals
which followed in the wake of the festival marked the end of the
People's Republic of China. So in a sense you were at least
indirectly responsible for the eventual creation of the Union of
Democratic States of China, as it is now known. But most of your
achievements didn't have a political slant, did they?

Hendrix (happily reminiscing) ; Very true. Some of my concerts
caused quite a stir. Remember Venice? In retrospect, that was
quite an evil thing to do, but we did it and made headlines
worldwide. We were the talk of the town for years. Except for the
town of Venice itself, with nobody left to talk about us after we
had taken care of it.

 You never had any regrets about destroying one of the
world's most impressive cities?

Hendrix : Venice would have crumbled and sunk under the sea
anyway, what with that greenhouse effect going on. We merely
extended a helping hand. We had been told, of course, that
picking Venice for the world's loudest ever open air gig might
cause major damage to the place, which was already under attack
from nature's forces. But our efforts surpassed our wildest
dreams. The shockwaves of our little stint shook the whole
structure apart and made this wonderful place sink beneath the
waves. It was a fitting end for a great city. Many people were
outraged, but we only felt pride. We felt we had done Venice
justice.

      Then there were some interesting locations you chose to
record in, again for the first time ever.

Hendrix : Oh yes. We were the first to record an album's worth of
songs and shoot all promotional video footage to go with it in a
space shuttle orbiting the earth. That was quite an experience. I
remember some wisecracking critic remarking the songs lacked
weight. We never cared much about what critics said, though. Our
main problem when we had pulled off another extravagant stunt
was, How do we follow this up? What do we come up with next that
makes our previous trick pale into insignificance? That's what we
were always trying to do, taking things one step further, push
the boundaries, expand our horizons, while the other guys were
still busy copying our old tricks we already thought of as
obsolete.

     You just mentioned promotional material. That's another
field you revolutionized, to put it mildly.

Hendrix (smiling smugly as memories come flooding back) : Oh, we
did some really far out stuff in that respect. We were the first,
for instance, to release virtual reality programs as promotional
material to boost CD and laserdisc sales. I still look back on
those first VR efforts of ours as pretty mind©boggling stuff that
was way ahead of its time. People plugged in to enjoy the ride in
incredible numbers. We really made history in the field of
advertising. Now of course so much VR stuff has been done, and so
much of it has been hackneyed run©of©the©mill stuff, that it's
looked down upon as old hat.

But you managed to stay one step ahead of all the others,
taking everyone by surprise with your biggest and boldest project
ever. I'm talking, as I'm sure you've guessed by now, about the
one we can see flickering on and off on clear nights.

Hendrix : At least that's an achievement of ours nobody's copied
as yet. Probably because it's simply too expensive. As a matter
of fact, at the time I was surprised we managed to find
sufficient financial backing to see the project through. I
remember people saying we were out of our minds, we couldn't
possibly be serious, and some even warned us we were meddling
with things that were better left unmeddled with. But you'll have
to admit the project served its purpose. No piece of advertising
has ever been harder to ignore than this stratocaster©shaped
mega©structure erected on the surface of the moon of such giant
proportions that it can be seen from the earth on a cloudless
night, flickering on and off, with my name inscribed on it,
glowing with a constant fluorescence. I'm still flooded with
pleasure when I see it. I'm also very happy I don't have to pay
its power supply bills. (Suddenly turns less cheerful, adopts a
pensive mode.) Still, there's something that bothers me about all
this promotional activity, and I'm talking in general now, not
strictly about my own stuff.

  You must be referring to the business side of the music
scene?

Hendrix : I never viewed the music scene as a type of business,
as an industry. I still remember the early days when we made
albums and did tours and festivals. I was a musician playing
music. But then there was this gradual process towards thinking
in terms of promotion, marketing, sales figures and returns. The
accountant's viewpoint, rather than the artist's one. Not to
mention the lawyers. Basically, in my view, all of this detracts
from the music. I could live with it at first. Making videos
wasn't all that bad, although I didn't care much for them. The
virtual reality stuff we cooked up was fun in the beginning, but
again I quickly grew tired of it. All too soon it no longer
offered a challenge to me, and the market ended up being
saturated with bland, uninspired VR drivel. Initially this VR
thing had looked like an interesting possibility to create a new
form of audience participation, but soon I realized it wasn't
genuine participation. However authentic it may feel, in the end
it's all fake, and it's in no way a substitute for the real
thing. Worse than that, most of that VR fluff was churned out
with barely any artistic intentions in mind. It was supposed to
boost sales, to shift more copies of our "product" as the
business types who are now running the store tend to call our
music. Things haven't gotten better since then. If anything,
they've tightened their stranglehold on us poor hapless artists.

      You clearly deplore this situation, but you'll have to admit
that it made you an awfully rich man.

Hendrix : I won't deny that. But as you know, I've made a point
of never talking about money, and I still cling to that decision.

     Why is that?
  Hendrix : I'm a musician, not an accountant.

   Will you still in any way be actively involved with music?
How do you view the years to come? What can we expect from you?

Hendrix (after a moment's thought) : Well, I suppose my music
will finds its way to new audiences for a certain time to come.
In a sense you could call that an active involvement. Apart from
that I'll be spending my private life in a way I'd prefer to keep
private, thank you. And, oh yes, I do still have one final
surprise up my sleeve.

        You final innovation? Will you push the boundaries one last
time?

Hendrix (chuckles, eyes gleaming with pleasure) : That's the
idea, yes. Let me put it this way. You know why certain people
produce works of art? Writers, painters, musicians? Because they
want to produce something that will linger for a long time, long
after they're no longer around themselves. Call it a form of
immortality. And they want as many people as possible to be
exposed to the productions of their minds and hands. And I'm no
exception to that rule, so I decided to make this final
statement, which I chose to call my Best Of Jimi Hendrix project.

     When will it be released?

Hendrix : It's being released while we're doing this interview
here. No doubt you'll notice it the moment you'll be leaving this
hotel. I can see you don't quite understand it yet. You should
know that this project is not a CD or a video or a VR program or
any other traditional way of releasing music. It's something new,
brand new, never done before © you know I go for that kind of
thing. It took us some time to find sufficient financial backing
for it, and we were glad to find a number of bio©engineering
companies which turned out to be willing to fund our project, as
it will also put this new product of theirs into the limelight.
You can see our project holds great promotional value for them.

       And what exactly is this new product?

Hendrix : It's a new type of partly mechanical, partly organical
unit, one that can serve a variety of purposes. Ours is a fully
automatic and autonomously operating structure which, once
released, is able to track down human life, to follow it
anywhere, and once it has determined it's close enough to its
target it starts playing a recording of a song of mine. There
will be no escape possible from them, until they're finished
playing their song. Each unit has a different song programmed
into it, but there'll be enough of them so that all my best work
will be represented. These units have a very long life span. Not
only are they self©repairing, they're also self©replicating, the
song they're programmed with being reproduced along with it. The
chances are they'll reproduce at a rate faster than they break
down or get destroyed. That means that one day the world may end
up being swamped with them © there'll be no escape from my music
anywhere on earth. And maybe, one day, who knows, in the entire
universe. This would really be an artist's ultimate dream come
true, don't you think? Well, I suppose we've reached the end of
our little conversation. One more thing, though. As you go out,
take a look around. Maybe one of my units will have detected you
and may be on its way toward you, anxious to treat you to one of
my songs. Any idea which song it'll be?





THE MAN WHO WOULDN'T LEAVE

by Frank Roger


1

     Voices!
        Henry rose from his slumber. Not without difficulty he
pushed himself upright, clambered out of his bed and ambled
towards the window. He had definitely heard human voices. That
meant he had been right all along. This was evidence he wasn't
the only one left in the drowning city.
        Panting heavily with the exertion, he leaned against the
dirt©streaked window, blinked a few times, shook his head as if
to cast off the last remnants of sleep. He peered outside,
squinting against the harsh morning light, threw glances in all
directions. There was no one to be seen down there. Yet he was
absolutely certain he had heard voices. Men's voices. Those guys
must be down there somewhere, he thought. They're bound to show
up eventually.
 A flock of seagulls sweeped past, squeaking shrilly, then
disappeared from his view only to come arcing back gracefully and
fade into the distance at his far right. The only sound now
reaching his ears was the lapping of the waters that had invaded
the streets and squares of Westport. He stared at the greenish
expanse beneath him, sluggishly making its way between the rows
of empty buildings, carrying an endless assortment of flotsam and
jetsam into the city, unintentionally clogging the boulevards and
alleys with haphazardly constructed ornaments of debris and
detritus. Westport was increasingly taking on the appearance of a
life©size model designed and assembled by a deranged architect
obsessed with urban decay and the voracious waters of the raging
sea.
   The sound of human voices, once again, tore him loose from
his observation and his reverie. There were definitely people
down there. Maybe he ought to go out and find them. He decided he
might as well skip breakfast to save some time. As a matter of
fact the very idea of another breakfast of tasteless canned food
scarcely appealed to him. He turned away from the window, ready
for action. It had been some time since he had last seen other
human beings.
  Mere minutes later he was outside, wearing his high boots
and water©tight clothing. The water reached just above his knees,
and the current was feeble. He would have no problem wading
through the streets, as long as he took it easy and didn't stay
outside for longer than an hour or so. He looked up to the window
pane he had been staring out of a few moments ago, as if he
expected to see himself still standing there, an old man
scrutinizing the waterscape, hoping to stumble onto some fellow
city dwellers. He had always presumed he was the last one to
stay, the only one to brave the assault of nature's forces, the
final stronghold of human civilization in a city mankind had
surrendered to a merciless enemy. Some had bluntly told him he
was a stubborn old man too ignorant and stupid to realize the
extent of the greenhouse effect. And now it had turned out he
wasn't alone. That possibly meant there was still some hope. It
was a pleasure to see the prophets of doom proven wrong.
      Slowly and carefully he started splashing through the water
in the direction of where he thought the voices had come from.

Ã **Ã2

       "Well, Vince." Eric smiled, sparklingly white teeth sharply
contrasting with his ebony skin, glinting in the sunlight. He
made a grand, sweeping gesture, and said, "This must be a fitting
backdrop for your wildest ideas."
      Vince Duvalier nodded. "It's exactly what I had in mind," he
conceded. "We should be able to shoot a fair amount of good
footage here. Look at it. Just take in the view. There'll be
plenty of material for the documentary we're supposed to be
doing, and I really plan to take this project as far as we can. I
was hoping to deliver an in©depth coverage, focussing on this
city's most dramatic and emotionally charged aspects. So yes,
Eric, all this seems to be perfect for what I intend to come up
with, if that was what you meant."
     "And we didn't even have to ask for permission from the
local authorities to work here," his sound engineer Nigel said.
        "To be honest, we didn't even bother to find out if we
needed a permission," Vince snorted. "Anyway, there's no one here
to keep us from working, whatever it is we'll want to use. Look
at that overturned truck." He pointed. "Magnificent. A perfect
symbol for this place. A submerged artifact from a vanished
civilization. Algae and clams have covered its exposed sides,
thus claiming it as their newfound territory, conquered at great
expense. No doubt seagulls use it as a vantage point. The truck
has become an integral part of its new surroundings, has blended
seamlessly into the world of marine life. I suggest we use it as
a recurring image throughout our footage. It's too powerful a
symbol not to make full use of."
       "If you say so, Vince." Eric turned to face him again. "How
long did you say this place has been deserted?"
        "A few years only. It used to be a thriving holiday resort.
And in a certain sense, it still is, although it attracts
different kinds of tourists now. Look." He pointed to a flock of
seagulls appearing from behind a multi©storey building, winging
their way to whatever their destination might be.
      "How can you be so sure there's no one left?" Don, the
fourth man of his team, asked. "Was every single house checked?"
       "Of course not. But why would anyone want to stay behind in
an evacuated city? How could you live here? There's no food, no
electricity, no fresh water, nothing worth staying for. Only this
part of town is relatively undamaged. Most of this city was built
closer to the shoreline and is now completely submerged, and
eroded away by strong currents and tidal waves and storms. We'll
have to go down there as well for some material, but somehow this
part has more artistic value. This is apocalyptic poetry at its
purest. No doubt we're going to shoot our most intense and most
emotionally gripping stuff here." After these last words Vince
lapsed into silence, suddenly lost in thought.
 Eric patted him on the shoulder, smiling. "Speaking of
emotionally gripping stuff, Vince. We all know this is a highly
special and very personal project for you. I understand a lot is
riding on it as far as your artistic career as a director is
concerned."
  Vince nodded, looked Eric coolly into the eyes, then said,
"It has been my intention all along to approach this assignment
from a very personal angle, hoping to present viewers with a
piece of art rather than a straight documentary. At this stage
I'm not quite sure how exactly I'll go about things, but no doubt
everything will become clear as we go along. I'm ready to tackle
whatever comes up, believe me. Well then. Let's get moving
again, and explore some more of this sinking paradise." He
motioned towards Don, who started the engine of their small boat.
Presently they were on their way, slowly cruising through the
shallow and calm waters filling this district of Westport.
     They passed along the overturned truck that had made such an
impression on Vince, rounded a corner and were suddenly facing an
image that made the four of them catch their breath and stare
incomprehendingly. Don immediately slowed down the boat till it
came to a rest.
        "What the hell is that?" Eric said in a faint whisper, then
turned to Vince.
       "There goes my theory. Well, I guess that is our welcoming
party."
        "So what do we do?"
    "I suggest we simply wait. He's coming towards us."
    The old man they had seen standing further down the street,
a wide smile on his face, hands on his hips, a relic from bygone
days tugged out of a museum and left here for the odd passerby to
marvel at, stirred into motion. He waved at them, came wading in
their direction. Vince exchanged glances with his three©piece
crew, not quite knowing what to expect. Did the man represent a
danger? Would he jeopardize their mission? Whatever the case may
be, Vince thought, we will soon find out.
    "Morning, folks," the man who was now within speaking range
said, as if he had greeted them this way for weeks on end. "How
are you doing? You okay?"
      "We're fine," Vince replied, on his guard, still not knowing
how to assess the situation. A loony? Left behind by his
relatives? Or an old man unwilling to leave his home town where
he'd spent all of his life? An eccentric artist, seeking the
quietude and loneliness of a hermit's so he could devote himself
to his creative endeavours without disturbances? His looks didn't
offer a clue: scraggly beard, long unkempt strands of thinning
grey hair, time©worn but reasonably decent clothes. Perhaps his
words would tell them more.
    "You looking for anything in particular?" the old man asked
in a normal tone of voice. At least he didn't sound like a
whacked©out wino.
      "Not really. Do you live around here?" He had to get some
information out of the man.
    "Of course I do. I used to think I was the only one left in
town, but now I realize what a senseless idea that was. Only
fools would give up Westport without putting up a fight. It's
still possible to live a decent life here. I'm glad you share my
views."
        "What makes you think we do?" Nigel remarked. Vince frowned,
cast a cold stare at him. It might not be wise to tell this old
man something that could shatter his cosy self©delusion. But by
now it was too late. The smile disappeared from his face, and he
stammered, "What do you mean?", let his eyes roam all over the
boat and the four of them. "I see. You mean you don't really live
here, do you?"
      "I'm afraid we don't," Vince conceded, after a moment's
silence. "We're a film crew. We came to work here."
    "Of course, now I see. All the equipment you're having
there. So I was wrong about you. But never mind all that. You're
welcome anyway. What about coming over to my place? I'll show you
around, I'll guide you throughout the entire neighborhood,
I'll..."
       "We'll gladly accept your offer," Vince hastened to say,
before any of his crew could refuse. "But we can't come right
now. We've got work to do. Tell us where you live and we'll drop
by as soon as we can." So now they knew. At least the man seemed
to represent no danger. Perhaps they could indeed pay him a
visit, shoot some unexpected but possibly useful footage, and
take him along when they were finished here, unless he resisted
too fiercely. In that case they could still inform the
authorities back home of his presence here.
    The old man's enthusiasm had been rekindled and appeared to
be on the verge of reaching new heights. He pointed to a building
behind him, and added, "It's quite some place I have there. It's
got all I need. I've got supplies of canned food and fresh water,
and from the roof I have a really breathtaking view of the entire
city, and..."
  "We'll come back and see all that by ourselves. But I'm
afraid we really have to go now. I'm sorry."
   "I understand. But you'll be back?"
    "Definitely."
  "What about this afternoon? Tonight, perhaps?"
 "Yes."
       "Promise?"
     "Count on us," Vince said. "See you later, okay?"
      "Bye. See ya." Vince nodded to Don, who started the engine
back up and steered the boat further down the street, leaving the
old man behind, steadying himself against the wavelets now
stirring the waters. Soon he was nothing more than an immobile
silhouette, etched into the background of concrete and slowly
moving water.
  "Oh my," Eric said. "What do you say, Vince?"
  "I suppose we can use him."
    "For our documentary? You can't be serious. They'll think
it's a joke, perpetrated in very bad taste, and..."
    "I wouldn't stress the phrase documentary too much."
   "You're really serious about making this a strictly personal
artsy film, aren't you?"
       "I am. Can we do some more sightseeing now? After all that's
what we set out to do this morning." The threesome understood
Vince considered the subject closed, and left the silence that
was now building up unbroken.
  They had barely crossed a few intersections when the sound
of another boat's engine reached them. They all exchanged worried
glances, and Vince sighed, "This place is crowded. And I thought
it was devoid of human life."
  Cautiously, they continued on their way. Their next
encounter might turn out to be less harmless than their first
contact with Westport's population had been.



3

      "This city is alive!" Henry cried out, beaming with joy,
pointing to the cityscape dimly visible through the grime©smeared
window pane.
   "Yes, with birds," the man who had just introduced himself
as Vince Duvalier countered. "They seem to have taken over the
place."
        "Yes, I know what you mean. The sea's inhabitants have
simply followed the sea as it moved into Westport. Look!" He
peered at a few seagulls winging past close to the window they
were looking out of.
   "You're serious, aren't you? You think the sea has moved
into Westport, rather than wiping it off the map."
     "Most people left, but there was no real reason to. I'm sure
they'll realize their mistake and I expect them to start coming
back soon, just like you guys."
        "I beg your pardon?" Vince stared him into the eyes, as if
struck by lightning.
   "So how was your day?" Henry asked. "Did you enjoy your
little sightseeing trip? Where do you expect to settle down? Have
you picked a place yet? Any chance of going back to your old
place? Or is it in the submerged part of town?"
        "I don't think you understand. We're staying in a small town
somewhat further inland, and plan to shuttle back and forth for
work."
 "You're absolutely right. There's no need to rush your
decision. There's plenty of places to pick from. That will
change, of course, as more people start coming back. You're only
the vanguard, I suppose, of a massive wave of Westporters heading
back home."
    There was silence for a few moments, as if it took Vince
some time and effort to grasp what he had said. He tried to shake
the man loose from his puzzlement by rephrasing his question yet
unanswered. "How did you like Westport? Didn't you say earlier
today you were planning a tour of the place?"
  Vince swallowed, and said, "Yes, we did. It was quite
fascinating. We haven't done any actual filming yet, but we'll
devote the next few days to that entirely. We found Westport to
be a city of chilling beauty. I'm sure we'll come up with
splendid material here."
       "I'm glad you like the neighborhood."
  "It's much more than just a city engulfed by the sea,"
Duvalier continued, his voice rising in pitch as images of
today's exploration were conjured up before his mind's eye. "The
city has been transformed into a symbol. Westport's architecture
and the sea with its endless supplies of flotsam and jetsam and
its colorful marine life have blended into a joint creation,
exemplifying the unification of man's and nature's forces. Hotels
and restaurants and car parkings are now submerged and clogged
with debris, seaweed and algae and clams have moved in and are
taking up residence where once human beings lived, seagulls are
nestling on the upper floors. Westport in its present state is
more than just a symbol, it's a bold statement, a monument
shining out for all to see, a taste of what the future has in
store for the rest of our cities. Believe me, I was deeply moved
by what I've seen today."
      "I can see you were," Henry conceded, "but enough of this.
Let me show you around my place here. You'll be amazed at the
stocks I've gathered. I've got more than just canned food and
fresh water. I managed to salvage some spirits as well. Would you
care for a whisky? Anything else? Why don't you take a look?
You'll be surprised!"
  "No thanks," Duvalier said. "I don't have the time really.
My three friends are waiting for me. I just dropped by for a
quick chat. And because there's something I have to tell you."
 "Oh." Henry was somewhat taken aback. This didn't sound like
good news.
     "When we've finished work here, you'll have to come back
with us. You can't stay here in Westport."
     Henry stared him into the eyes, struck dumb. This man was
out of his mind. Silence hung between them, an invisible screen
erected to avoid all further contact. It was Duvalier who managed
to break the silence.
  "How long will your supplies last, Henry? One day soon you
will have run out of everything you need to survive here and then
you'll be helpless in a city whith nobody left to turn to. This
is your last chance.




A MATTER OF SPEED (OR: THE SPEED OF MATTER)

by Frank Roger



1

   This was by no means Paris. And he would under no
circumstance deliver his well©rehearsed presentation at this
week's sales and promotion conference in his present condition.
Kevin looked down once again at his naked body. The matter
transmitter hadn't transmitted his clothes along with him.
Another glitch in the system? Or was this some trade union
action in support of their struggle for whatever it was they were
demanding now? Or perhaps pranksters had once again managed to
gain access to the system's main computer?
     Oh my God, he thought, as he realized his briefcase hadn't
made the trip along with him either. So his presentation of his
company's new product was out of the question in any case. With a
mounting feeling of despair he stepped out of the transmitting
booth, and made his way to the terminal building's information
center. Although the arrivals lounge with its hundreds of booths
was swarming with people coming in from all around the world,
nobody paid any notice to his nudity. People ended up being
transmitted without their clothes so often these days, for a
variety of reasons, that bare human skin no longer attracted any
attention.
   Fortunately business tended to adapt promptly to the quickly
changing circumstances. Clothing stores now had outlets at all
major transmitting terminals. The cluster of stores at the far
end of the lounge indicated this was such a major terminal,
although he still didn't have a clue where exactly he had ended
up. The impeccable cleanliness only told him it wasn't Paris.
Thanks to his credit card being imprinted on the nail of his
right thumb, so that no transmitting foulup could leave him
stranded without his indispensable bying power, he was able to
get a new set of clothes. As he was happily fully dressed again,
the store attendant told him this was San Josáá, Costa Rica.
  What he had to do now was to locate and, if possible,
retrieve his briefcase. He didn't bother to find out where his
old set of clothes had disappeared to. Nobody ever did anymore.
        It took him some time to get the information he needed. The
computer system kept track of all transmissions, but apparently
there were so many problems and mishaps and inquiries that he had
to wait five full minutes before the message appeared on the
screen that his briefcase had ended up in Singapore. The safest
thing to do would be to go and pick it up himself. Its contents
were too important to leave this task to anyone else. His
company's "smart suit" still was considered to be a secret
prototype and was not supposed to fall into the wrong hands.
Needless to say, anyone's hands but his were viewed as wrong.
  He joined the stream of people busily making their way to
the departures lounge. It surprised him time and again that even
in cities of relatively little economic importance like San Josáá,
extensive transmitting terminals could barely manage the everªincreasing
numbers of travellers leaving and coming in. It was
remarkable how matter transmitters had become the main means of
transportation in a very short period of time.
 When his turn finally came, he inserted his credit card
carrying thumb into the booth's payslot and keyed in his
destination only to be disappointed once again. Invalid command,
the monitor screen informed him. He asked for more details and
was told that all transmissions to Singapore were out because of
a total power shutdown over there. A question for yet more
details made it clear that the power shutdown had been an
emergency decision by the new Singaporese government, selfªappointed after a quick but effective coup d'áátat, to prevent
political opponents from escaping to safer pastures. Of course
this also meant that nobody could get in for the time being. He
would have to forget about his briefcase for a while.
  Sighing with resignation he stepped out of the booth. The
best thing to do now would be to call headquarters in New York
and ask his boss for new orders. Swiftly he made his way back to
the information center.

Ã **Ã2

      "Mr. Ramirez? This is Kevin Portnoy. I'm calling from San
Josáá, Costa Rica."
   "What the hell are you doing there? Were you desperate for a
holiday or something? This is bad news, right?"
        "I'm afraid it is. I missed Paris. So did my briefcase. It's
now in Singapore, and©©"
       "I know about the situation there. Very bad news indeed. And
then you haven't heard the worst yet."
       "Oh? What's that?"
     "New York is off©limits as well, but only in one direction.
We can leave, but you can't come in. Well, in theory you can, but
people are being highly discouraged from doing so."
    "What's going on?"
     "Remember that international conference that was to be held
over here next weekend?"
       "You mean the conference on the abolition of national
boundaries in the light of the recent transportation revolution
which has completely©©"
        "Yes, that one. Well, it appears a lot of nationalist
extremists don't quite fancy that idea and set out to sabotage
the conference by transmitting to New York in massive numbers to
drop off bombs all over the place in as random a pattern as
possible. Hundreds of explosions have about torn this place
apart. It's a mystery how these guys got past the security
screens, but they did. It's less of a mystery that we'll be
moving any minute now. Business can no longer be conducted in New
York City for at least a fortnight. We decided it'd be better to
move business to a safe place rather than to wait for
reconstruction."
       "So what do I do now?"
 "Let me see. We just bought some nice property in Nairobi.
Right now we're about to start transmitting all our people and
equipment and stuff, but it may be two more hours before we're
back in business. So I'd say, hang out there for a while, go and
eat something, and be in Nairobi by four p.m. unless Singapore
swings open its doors again before then. We'll talk and arrange a
new schedule for you, if at all possible. You know how quickly
things change these days."
     "Fine. See you."

Ã **Ã3

     While eating his way through a delicious quesadilla Kevin
watched the half©hourly newsreport on the TV screen mounted on
the table in front of him. The world appeared to be spinning
around at a mercilessly hectic pace these days, but it was the
news about recent developments in Singapore which made him drop
his fork and choke.
    Power had been barely restored by the already firmly
entrenched new government, the newscaster said, or Singapore had
surprised the world by invading the market with a stunning piece
of state©of©the©art technology: a sort of "smart suit", partly
mechanical, partly organic, which was able to adapt itself
immediately to any climate type it was exposed to, measuring
parameters like temperature and humidity and so on and changing
its own insulating, heat©absorbing and various other qualities
accordingly. This made it the perfect outfit for today's busy
traveller, appearing and disappearing in a variety of places all
over the world several times a day. No doubt it would be big
business, the newscaster concluded, adding that it was a mystery
how this new marvel of modern science had appeared out of the
blue in Singapore of all places.
       Pirates, Kevin thought, anger boiling within him, pirates.
So somebody had spotted the ownerless briefcase and had put its
contents to good use. No doubt the smart suits they were now
flooding the market with were very poor copies, produced in a
frenzied hurry and based on the briefest of examinations of the
prototype model he had been supposed to present at this week's
sales and promotion conference.
        Of course he could forget about that now. The whole smart
suit project would now be scrapped. Ramirez would be furious.
Speaking of Ramirez, it was about time he went to see him. Going
to Singapore would now be pointless.
   Back in the departures lounge he had to wait for his turn to
get into a booth. Massive numbers of people seemed to be flitting
in and out of this place. When his turn had finally come and he
had entered both his credit card and his destination, the monitor
screen informed him there were considerable delays for all
transmissions to Nairobi. He asked for more details and was told
that Kenya had just started a mega©campaign to attract tourists,
desperate as the government was for the money these visitors
would spend so generously, and the response turned out to be
quite overwhelming. Transmitting terminals in Nairobi as well as
in many major departure areas simply could not cope with the
number of passengers wishing to be flicked to their newly
discovered holiday resort. There was nothing Kevin could do about
it. He would simply have to wait, and waste precious time. He
closed his eyes and tried to forget everything for a moment.

Ã **Ã4

 As he waited to be whisked off to Nairobi, his thoughts
wandered freely. The advent of instant matter transmission
technology had not so much changed the world as speeded it up.
The pace at which everything evolved was still getting faster
every day. A gigantic worldwide network of transmission booth
terminals had made physical distances disappear. The earth was
finally one. Unfortunately, there were drawbacks.
      No system is perfect. His present condition had made this
painfully clear. A variety of things could go wrong © and often
did, thanks to activists and terrorists and pranksters who knew
how to find their way into the system's intricate workings.
People ended up in the wrong places, or their baggage did, or in
the worst of cases, they got "lost in transmission" and were
never heard of again. Criminals and joyriders also used the
system with stolen credit cards © in recent times they tended to
remove and take away the finger carrying the card.
     Basically Kevin was of the opinion that life was
accelerating beyond control. If you slept too long you had
trouble catching up. He barely managed to understand his job and
his role in society, let alone others'. As distances no longer
mattered, his employer's offices were now scattered all over the
world, and conferences and workshops were held in various places
according to a rotating schedule. Offices were moved constantly,
making it hard to keep track of where everyone was. The world was
now one © but it was getting blurred and fuzzy.
        He sighed with relief as he finally saw the message appear
that the booth was ready for transmission. He closed his eyes,
hoping that this time he would arrive where he was supposed to.
As he stepped back out of the booth he was immediately approached
by a warmly smiling, official©looking black woman who said,
"Welcome to Nairobi." This was the first time he had been
welcomed after a transmission, but at least the words had sounded
like good news.
      "Do you have tourist or non©tourist status?" the woman
asked.
 "I'm here for business," he replied, wondering why she
bothered.
      Her warm smile disappeared. "I'm sorry. In that case you'll
have to show some patience. Tourists get special preference for
the time being. I'm sure you will understand."
 He did. He also realized he should have known better. Along
with a bunch of other non©tourists, he let more precious time go
by in a makeshift waiting area before they could all get checked
out. One of his co©travellers wore a suit which was adapting
itself to the higher temperature in the waiting room. It was
exactly what he needed to convince him of the hopelessness of his
current situation. He would, for instance, arrive hopelessly late
for his appointment with Ramirez.

Ã **Ã5

    Ramirez shook his head with desperation. "It took you so
long to get here, Kevin. You know very well how vital time is
these days, how fast everything changes, how absolutely
imperative it is that we roll along with these changes. You
really missed a lot while you were away. Let me see.
   "As soon as we found out what had happened to your briefcase
we chose to react promptly. We developed a new model, a "loyal
smart suit" with as added characteristic that it can recognize
its owner © and it refuses any other person who feels tempted to
try it on by throttling him. It's a very customer©friendly and
criminal©unfriendly design which is selling like hotcakes. We
arranged a special sales conference for it, to speed up
proceedings. Our profits are breathtaking.
     "Of course we were forced to replace you for the job. To be
honest, we had about given up on you. We feared you might have
gotten lost somewhere along the line. It happens more and more.
Anyway, waiting for you to turn up again was out of the question.
There was work to do. I'm sure you'll understand."
     "Of course I do," Kevin said numbly.
   "But there's more. Our company's been bought by an ArabªJapanese conglomerate. We can expect radical and swift changes
any moment. Tomorrow we may be in a different line of work
altogether. Nairobi may be a quickly fading memory by then."
   "I don't think I would mind," Kevin muttered.
  "But there's more! I kept the best part for last. We're on
the threshold of the next major revolution that will bring about
a new era."
    "Already?"
     Ramirez ignored his cynicism. "We'll soon have access to our
own private transmitting equipment. As we're sitting here it's
being installed. Not only here, but at major companies around the
world, not to mention individuals affluent enough to afford this
luxury. The network as it exists now will be greatly expanded,
reducing waiting times and organisational hassles. Of course
there will still be some bothersome security measures©©"
       "And there's bound to be glitches and unfortunate incidents
and innocent victims and©©"
    "Don't be so sarcastic, Kevin. There's no holding back this
awesome progress. Either we'll roll along with it or be trampled
by it. Well, I guess that wraps it up. So unless you have any
more questions..."
      "Oh yes, there is one more thing," Kevin said. "What's going
to happen with me now?"
        "Ah," Ramirez said, reclining in his seat. "Good question.
As I've pointed out already, we had virtually given up on you.
You seemed to have vanished. And you know how tough business is
these days. So I'm afraid..." His voice trailed off.
   "Of course," Kevin said, resigned. "I understand."
     Ramirez extended his hand. "I hope there will be no hard
feelings. I wish you the best of luck. I guess you'll need it."
        Kevin shook Ramirez's hand, and nodded. "Maybe we'll meet
again someday," was all he managed to say.
     Ramirez smiled politely. "I doubt it, but then again in this
world you never know."
 Kevin left the office, jobless, and with barely enough
buying power on his credit card to pay for a transmission back
home. He would at least have ample time to figure out what to do
with the rest of his life.

Ã *'ÃEpilog

      Slowly and carefully Kevin drove his battered old Landrover
around cracks and crevices and vegetation©encrusted patches. This
stretch of highway was in very poor condition, but he knew the
area like the back of his hand, knew where he could pick up
speed, where he had to watch out, and which parts were best
avoided altogether.
    "This road's in very bad shape," Ramirez remarked uneasily
from his vantage point in the backseat. "How long before we get
there?"
       "We'll arrive at Portnoy Airport on schedule," Kevin said.
"Don't worry. I'm a pro. You paid a lot for high©quality and
high©safety transportation to Washington, and you'll get value
for money."
    "I don't doubt it for a second," Ramirez muttered, still
sounding ill at ease. "But I can see you're an excellent driver.
No wonder you're doing so well. Your services had been
recommended to us by various people we work with."
     "I'm glad to hear it," Kevin said smugly.
      "But to be honest, I hadn't counted on crossing paths with
you again. It was quite a surprise."
   "It was a surprise to me as well," Kevin replied, and added,
in thought only, And it feels awfully good to be making a lot of
money from you.
        "You've got quite some business, considering the short
period of time since you started out. I'm impressed."
  "Business? This is more than just some business, pal. I'm an
economical force to be reckoned with. This is an empire I'm
building here. I'm telling you, this will be huge one day. And
that day is coming fast."




PRESSURE POINTS : WHY CAN'T TOURISTS HAVE THEIR WAY?

by Frank Roger



   As the title and credits of perennial audience favorite and
ratings smash©hit talk show "Pressure Points" scroll on and off
the TV screen, footage of bygone days relating to today's topic
is shown by way of introduction. Viewers immediately recognize
the giant golf©ball©like 'Spaceship Earth' that has become
Florida's EPCOT Center's trademark. Tourists are queuing in front
of it, long lines coiled like a snake slowly being pulled inside
the geosphere. More tourists are walking back and forth, small
children are shouting merrily. Virtually all of these people are
dressed very casually : an assortment of white and garishlyªcolored T©shirts and shorts appear to be the preferred items of
clothing. People sip from drinks constantly ; their foreheads are
glistening with sweat in the humid Florida heat. Cameras are
dangling on their bellies, some people even carry video
equipment. There's an aura of peacefulness and tranquillity
emanating from this scene, an old©fashioned holiday atmosphere.
These people are clearly here to enjoy themselves. This massive
crowd is one big family, happy to leave stressful jobs and
everyday routines behind for a week or so and out to have fun.
 The scene is replaced by a series of short glimpses of EPCOT
Center as we know it today : acrid smoke rising from behind the
battle©scarred buildings, armed tourists darting from one
barricade to another, improving their positions, trying to force
a breakthrough against the enemy or retrieving the body of a
fallen friend, an explosion somewhat further down the road,
possibly near the Mexican pavillion in the World Showcase, black
smoke billowing up, fueled by angry red flames. The image fades
into blackness, and then today's panellists spring into view.
Thomas Halford, Pressure Points' (and a whole string of other TV
shows') hugely popular host, flashes the viewers his famous
extra©wide smile, and introduces the three panellists sitting in
a semi©circle across from him.
 "Ladies and gentlemen, would you please welcome Mrs. Janet
Esperanza, mayor of Orlando (canned applause, the fiftyish lady
politely nods, a faint smile curling her lips), Mr. Jeffrey
Barlowe, spokesman of DisneyWorld (longer applause, the wellªdressed and immaculately groomed man in his early thirties
produces a highly professional smile), and miss Melinda Araya,
representing the Florida Peace Corps (subdued, polite applause,
the black girl, late twenties at the most, stares the viewers
coolly in the eyes, emanating pride, determination and unfailing
commitment to a cause she believes to be a just one). Ladies and
gentlemen, we're off for a new episode in our Pressure Points
saga." Halford claps his hands, the invisible audience (if there
is one actually present at all) erupts into cheers and a wild
applause. When silence has returned, Halford opens up the debate
by asking Janet Esperanza the first question of today's show.
  "Mrs. Esperanza, as you are the mayor of Orlando, I would
like you to provide our viewers with a short introduction to
tonight's issue at hand, in case there's some people out there
who haven't kept up too well with the news in the last ten years
or so." (Canned laughter, Jeffrey Barlowe claps his hands and
grins as if this is the best joke he has heard in months,
Melinda Araya is clearly doing her best to maintain her coolness
and self©control.)
     "Well, all I can say is that we're relatively happy with the
situation as it is. I know very well that it used to be different
in the not©so©distant past, and I am aware of the fact that some
movements here in Florida are prone to nostalgic feelings and
dream about a return to those bygone days. I also know that the
majority of the people in Florida and the United States in
general are in support of the current situation. As long as
everything is kept under control, I see no reason to interfere in
what is basically internal DisneyWorld policy."
        "Miss Araya? I believe you disagree?"
  "I do," the girl says. "There's a war going on in our
backyard, and we have to bring it to an end. People are being
killed. There's no excuse for sitting back and letting it all
happen just because it seems to be a profitable way of doing
business. Florida needs peace. The war must be stopped. The
current situation, to use Mrs. Esperanza's words, is a disgrace.
Not interfering with it is immoral."
   "Mr. Barlowe, is there a war going on in Florida?" Halford
asks. "I would say this is a serious indictment."
      Barlowe spreads his hands wide. "EPCOT Center is by no means
the theater of a war in the usual sense of the word. I know very
well, of course, what miss Araya is referring to. There is an
armed conflict between English and German tourists. These people
have chosen EPCOT Center as their battleground. This is the
result of a gradual process that saw EPCOT Center evolve from a
typical Disney theme park into what it is today. But there is no
"war" going on. Florida was not invaded by armies engaged in
combat. The English and German tourists are paying customers.
They are catered to by our organisation. Their needs may be
specialized and different from those of the average tourist, but
they're still very much paying customers." Barlowe smiles
triumphantly. There is no doubt in his mind : his views will
stand being challenged. The matter has been settled in his favor.
      "Let's get this straight," Esperanza cuts in, on Halford's
invitation. "It's a fact that EPCOT Center has seen a very
peculiar evolution. Ten years ago it was a theme park as there
are many in this country. Gradually the number of English and
German tourists increased, a result of the flourishing economy
overseas and the low dollar exchange rate. People from the same
country tended to stick together in the same hotels and
restaurants and bars, formed 'clans' with their own 'territories'
on which tourists from other countries were not welcome. Rising
nationalism and mutual disdain led to a number of incidents,
mainly between groups of English and German tourists. A
retaliation followed every incident, barroom brawls grew into
skirmishes, a hard core of hot©headed patriots on both sides
developed into organisations. Tourists of other nationalities
began to stay away, afraid to be caught between two fires. In the
end there were two clearly divided camps, and the game began
attracting tourists who came to purposefully join the battle
rather than to see the sights, fresh troops to replace their
weary comrades rather than©©"
  "And you did nothing to prevent all this or stop this
madness," Araya interrupts her. "You only made matters worse."
       "We adapted to the changing situation," Barlowe corrects
her. "We quickly realized it would be futile to get these people
out of each other's hair, repair the damage our buildings had
suffered and hope that old©style tourists would come back. We
simply catered to the needs of the two parties, and©©"
 "You started selling weapons to them. You installed a war
infrastructure for them. You are co©responsible for the people
who died in your blood©drenched theme park. You've got blood on
your hands, Barlowe, and the rest of you."
     "We didn't start this so©called war," Barlowe retorts. "And
let me remind you that not one single American citizen has died
on our grounds. It was the Germans and the English who decided to
engage in battle. We have this situation on our hands now and
we're dealing with it in the best way possible."
       "By selling weapons to them, by stimulating the war effort,
by allowing an increasing number of so©called paying customers to
be injured or get killed and flying them back home in body©bags.
Where will this madness end? Will it ever end?"
        Barlowe once again spreads his hands wide. "They're free to
declare a cease©fire and to go home. But please stop blaming us
for something we're not responsible for."
      "It is generally believed," Araya says, her voice rising in
pitch, "that your company is making more money from the current
EPCOT Center war industry than you did when EPCOT was still an
'old©fashioned' holiday resort. Couldn't that by any chance be
the reason behind your support of this profits©propelled
carnage?"
      "Please, miss Araya, try to understand our viewpoint, try to
see these things in their proper perspective. Tourists spend a
lot of hard©earned money in Orlando's hotels and restaurants,
they pay high prices for their EPCOT passes and all the
equipment we're offering, but this is all completely their own
choice. We're doing business, and are doing quite well indeed,
but only because these people allow us to. If you think this is
an immoral situation, go tell the English and German travel
agencies overseas who book all the flights and reservations. Why
doesn't the Florida Peace Corps walk firmly onto the blood©soaked
battleground, as you insist on calling it, and shout at the two
parties that this dreadful war must be stopped? Why don't you
tear up their Union Jacks and their black©red©yellow insignia and
invite them to fraternize? I'll grant you people free passes. I
don't wanna make a buck on your backs." (Canned laughter, roaring
applause, Barlowe leans back, smiling smugly, claps his hands,
beaming with pride at his moment of victory and pure joy.)
     "What's the official viewpoint here?" Halford asks,
directing the question to the only representative of the
authorities present.
   "I must say Mr. Barlowe is right," Esperanza joins back in.
"The official viewpoint is that the English and German
governments are responsible for their citizens. We see no reason
to interfere with what is basically a foreign affair. The United
States will not solve any problems two opposed nations might
have. Officially©©"
    "Officially what matters is that allowing these people to
slaughter each other and destroy EPCOT is a goldmine."
 "Please miss Araya," Halford says reprovingly, "don't
interrupt the other speakers. We can't have this civilized
discussion degenerate into a©©"
      "This discussion will lead us nowhere," Araya interrupts
once again. "People like Barlowe remain deaf for any arguments we
can bring up. The bottom line is money, that's what dominates
their every thought and act." The girl is clearly having trouble
keeping herself in check.
      "Miss Araya," Barlowe says, with remarkable calm, "it
strikes me that you fail to listen to our arguments as well.
Everything we say is discarded, and you seem to think that
endlessly repeating your profit©centered analysis will render it
more convincing. Why don't you try to refute our arguments
instead of drowning them with your slogans? And why don't you
listen first instead of constantly interrupting us in mid©flow?
I'm afraid I find your whole attitude©©"
       "You came well©prepared, Mr. Barlowe," Araya interrupts him
once more. "You're probably used to defending your company
against serious criticism, you have this well©rehearsed little
speech to ward off subversive journalists and pacifists and other
unwelcome critics. You©©"
      "Miss Araya, you are getting personal," Halford says. "There
is no room on this show for this kind of thing. Please."
       "I find it hard to believe," Barlowe quickly segues in,
"that this young woman represents a pacifist movement. The
aggressiveness she has given ample evidence of belies her peaceªseeking principles."
   "Now you're getting personal," Araya says, anger
unmistakably boiling up within her. "I thought there was no room
for such misbehavior on this show."
    "Miss Araya, Mr. Barlowe, please," Halford says pleadingly,
"we are losing from sight what we're supposed to be discussing."
     Barlowe and Araya start to speak together, raising their
voices in an effort to be heard, but apparently their microphones
have been switched off, and Halford invites Mrs. Esperanza to
wrap up the discussion.
        "Well," she says, "it seems only fair that we should at
least examine the viewpoints of the Florida Peace Corps, even if
their proposals are rather unrealistic at this moment. A workable
policy needs after all to be based on the reality of the
situation, and we should take all aspects of this matter in
consideration, view it from as many angles as possible. I don't
think there are any simple solutions for a complex problem as the
one we're facing here at EPCOT. It will take determination,
diplomacy and a lot of time to sort out. In the meantime we can
only try to cope as efficiently as possible within the
circumstances, as we're doing now and as we'll continue to do."
        An ovation follows these last words of her, the camera zooms
in on Halford's face. He flashes the viewers that bright smile of
his again, claps his hands a few times, and says, "Thank you,
Mrs. Esperanza, Mr. Barlowe, and miss Araya. And thank you, all
of you out there, for watching tonight, and remember to tune in
next week, when "Pressure Points" will focus on the hot topic of
enforced euthanasia for retirees without a proper retirement
plan."
 The end credits scroll on and off the screen, superimposed
on a sequence of images shot at EPCOT : the smoldering ruins of
the once dome©shaped Wonders of Life building, the towering
double helix in front of it ironically still erect ; a group of
grim©faced Englishmen, who have taken up position between the
United Kingdom pavillion and the Rose & Crown, firing off shells
at the German pavillion across the World Showcase Lagoon ; a
tourist, lying lifeless on a causeway, his T©shirt sporting the
black©red©yellow of the German flag now smeared with dirt and
grime, forgotten by his friends, or perhaps fallen in a danger
zone where they daren't retrieve his body ; a skirmish between
two small groups of lightly©armed Germans and Englishmen in the
Communicore building, erupting into shouts of fury and victory
respectively as an Englishman is hit and drops to the floor,
writhing in agony. The camera zooms in, until his pain©warped
face fills the screen, then closes in on his eyes, moves to the
victim's left eye, zooming in on the black pupil, and eventually
all that is left is the total blackness of the pupil. It is as if
the image has faded into darkness rather than that the attention
was concentrated on one particular detail, and this way a fitting
final image wraps up this week's "Pressure Points".





ANOTHER FORTNIGHT OF PEACE

by Frank Roger



   I get outside in the harsh sunlight, squinting, and hear
Harry call my name from across the street. I wave my hand, and
cast a glance in his direction.
        "Well, what do you say?" he asks, running a hand through his
thinning hair. He is panting, his enormous bulk heaving with the
exertion of the work he has apparently just finished. He is a fat
man, but good©natured, basically amiable. Good thing to have him
in the neighborhood.
   "Marvellous!" I call back. "Fine piece of craftsmanship!
That'll do the job, Harry!" I nod approvingly and give him the
thumbs©up. Harry smiles his usual extra©wide smile, casts some
inquiring glances upwards as though there is something wrong with
the blue expanse of the sky, then disappears inside his house. He
has put in some really solid work this time around : he has gone
so far as to cover up the windows with a solid line of bricks and
has barricaded the door completely. His house now has the
appearance of a bunker. Well, yes, as a rule Harry does tend to
exaggerate. Bricking up the whole thing is highly effective of
course, but tomorrow he'll have to pull it all down again, unless
he chooses to keep on living in a bunker. But then again, let us
be honest : last time he simply boarded up everything with
heavy©duty planks which turned out to be quite insufficient. He
suffered considerable damage, quite a bit of stuff was destroyed
or taken away. That's the kind of thing that gets to a man, so
let us not judge Harry too quickly.
    I for one have closed up all entrances with somewhat less
drastic means, just like last time around. Back then we didn't
have any serious problems, only some minor damage which was
quickly repaired.
      I let my gaze roam across the street : here and there
someone is putting the finishing touches to his defences : steel
shutters, solid brick walls, armoured concrete constructions,
live barbed wire, the whole gamut of things. A pattern is
becoming apparent in recent times : shopkeepers, like Harry, show
an increasing tendency towards elaborate defence lines, in some
cases reaching over©the©top proportions. So Harry's sportswear
shop may look like a bunker, but then shift your gaze to Mr.
Rosenblum's jewelry store and let us compare notes. What can we
expect next? The moat©and©drawbridge approach? Burning oil? I am
being cynical now, and some would contend my cynicism is
unjustified. These are serious issues, they would say. And, quite
honestly, they would be right. So please ignore my sarcasm.
    Everyone is about finished by now, these activities having
become a routine into which we smoothly slip back when the time
has come. I finish my own activities, admire the result of my
labour not unlike an artist beholding his latest creation. I
inhale the invigorating fresh summer air for the last time, look
at the clear blue sky for the last time before I get back in (now
I think I understand Harry's reaction) and then I too make my
retreat. Not until tomorrow, around noon, will we surface again.

    In the evening and all through the night we try to ignore
the noise and pretend to be in deep concentration over our books
and magazines. But Miranda seems to be staring at the very same
page all night long and I am turning a page at regular intervals
merely to keep up a semblance of normalcy and young Kim isn't
even bothering to attempt anything resembling normal behaviour.
Obviously no one is willing to admit this, but the noise up there
is absorbing all our attention. Wailing sirens, droning engines,
squealing tyres, the nerve©wracking chop©chop©chop of low flying
helicopters. Gunshots and explosions. Shattered glass (despite
all our efforts? it seems barely conceivable!), excited and/or
inciting yells, screams of agony, catcalls and outbursts of joy.
Heavy droning, dull thuds, metallic clashes. The night seems to
drag on endlessly, a caleidoscope of sound out of control. Sleep
isn't even considered ; it has become an element of the past
overnight. Or, if I may rephrase, of the future, tomorrow to be
more precise.
  As morning extends into noon our nervous systems are
finally given some respite. Silence begins to take possession of
the street, a silence that appears to grow all©pervasive. We wait
for a little while longer, just to be on the safe side, then I
leave the cellar and climb back up to the surface. Everything
has withstood the onslaught, there isn't even any minor damage. I
am flooded with a feeling of relief.
   After some time I manage to open up the doorway. The street
is a terrible mess, a modern day battlefield. Across the street I
spot Harry, already hard at work at pulling down his brick
bulwark. What an immense amount of work for one single day! It
has however turned out to be quite effective, which is what it
was all about of course. Harry becomes aware of my presence,
waves at me and yells, "What a mess!"
  "Hell of a mess!" I shout back.
        "Well, what do you say?" he asks, pointing at his
fortifications, beaming with pride and satisfaction.
   "Solid piece of craftsmanship," I answer. "No getting
through."
      Harry grins approvingly, spits in his hands, gets back to
pulling down the layers of bricks. More and more people are
coming out. Casual greetings are exchanged. Everything is quickly
checked for damage, but all this has become a routine by now and
most fortifications appear to meet the desired standards.
      Looks of disapproval are cast across the ruined streetscape,
pockmarked as it is with bomb craters, burned out vehicles, lumps
of stone and asphalt and concrete and metal. Some way off there's
the glinting carcass of a crashed helicopter, like the lifeless
chitinous armour of an irritating insect which was slapped down.
Casualties have of course been taken away during the night as
usual.
 Everyone starts tearing down his barricades and
fortifications. We have two weeks to breathe freely now. Then
this madness will start all over again and we'll have to get
moving again. There will be another soccer game in a fortnight
and another gargantuan battle will be waged between the fans and
the forces of law and order in the streets of the city.
        I cast a final glance at Harry who is working up a sweat and
then I too start working on pulling down my fortifications. We
will be allowed to do without for another fortnight.





ROLL OVER BEETHOVEN © LIVE

by Frank Roger



1

    It had been so ominously quiet in Harry Penfield's office
that even the light buzz of the intercom managed to scare the
living daylights out of him. He had been lost in thought, trying
to fight off encroaching despair. Things weren't going according
to schedule. As a matter of fact, things were going downright
wrong. His superiors were expecting results. Time and again they
had told him, "Penfield, there's a lot riding on this project.
There have been massive investments. We want the profits to be
equally massive. And we'd like to see those profits start coming
now." Unfortunately, there was nothing he could do at this
moment. Profits weren't even his most immediate concern.
       "Hello?" he said.
      "Mr. Penfield?" the soft voice of his secretary said. "Mr.
Vivaldi would like to see you. Can I send him in?"
     "Please do, Janice," he said, relieved. So Vivaldi had
turned up again. That solved at least one of his most pressing
problems. Now if only the man came to deliver some good news...
        "Good afternoon, Antonio," he welcomed the man who was
ushered into his office, and invited him to take a seat.
       "Afternoon, Harry," the man said with only the slightest
trace of an accent. "I've got news for you. We just finished
recording." Vivaldi smiled. He was clearly satisfied with
whatever it was he had cooked up.
      "Recording?" Penfield asked, bewildered. "What do you mean,
recording? Where did you find an orchestra?"
   "We didn't need one."
  "'We'? What are you talking about, Antonio? Who are 'we'?
And what have you been doing? Why did you break off all contact
with me? I understand you wanted to work undisturbed, but I do
think you've gone too far. You owe me an explanation, Antonio."
        "Well, I'm afraid you may be in for a surprise, Harry. We
didn't simply do what you asked us to. We've been thinking, and
we changed our minds. Why don't you come and see the four of us
tomorrow? And listen to what we've come up with?"
      Penfield reclined in his seat, closed his eyes for a moment.
This wasn't exactly good news. The four of them should have been
working separately, not together. And they had been expected to
compose music, not to record anything. How on earth could he pull
matters straight again? He didn't see an alternative to accepting
Vivaldi's invitation.
  "Alright," he said, resigned. "Where and when do I meet you?
I mean, the four of you?"

Ã **Ã2

    It had looked so nice on paper. Modern science now allowed
the dead to come back to life. Not in any literal sense, of
course. Artificial replicas, or "androids", could be constructed,
based on a thorough examination of the DNA in their mortal
remains and a far©ranging study of their psychological profile
based on biographical data which had to be available in
sufficient detail. These newly created "versions" were perfect
copies of the original human beings, however artificial they
were. The bio©engineering techniques and the software that had
been developed for this purpose were all quite expensive, hence
the technique was only applied for special projects for which
sufficient funds could be raised.
      This project Harry Penfield had been assigned to was such an
ambitious undertaking. A consortium of record companies, musical
academies and institutions devoted to the study and development
of classical music had provided enough financial support to
recreate four classical composers counted among western culture's
most important and influential artists. So one day J.S. Bach,
W.A. Mozart, A. Vivaldi and L. van Beethoven had risen from their
graves, to use the kind of sensational imagery newspapers had
considered appropriate for the occasion at the time.
   They had been brought back to "life" at the respective
moments in their careers when their creative powers had reached
their very pinnacle. The idea for them was to compose some more
brilliant classical music, thus granting them the opportunity to
continue their artistic endeavors. It was hoped their activities
would rekindle the flagging interest for this type of music, that
a scheduled series of concerts and CDs and videos would meet with
critical as well as commercial success and inaugurate a new
golden age for an art form often dismissed as obsolete and
unexciting.
    But before they could get down to work, the four artists had
to catch up with everything they had missed since their deaths.
They were given a crash course in recent history, were taught all
they needed to know about modern times. And that, Harry Penfield
thought, must have been where things had gone wrong.

Ã **Ã3

 "Good morning, gentlemen," Penfield said as light©heartedly
as possible as he entered the studio. "I think you owe me an
explanation. And please don't beat about the bush. We've lost
enough time as it is."
 The four of them threw glances at one another, and Vivaldi
said, "As you may remember, what you asked us to do, was,
basically..."
  "Let me remind you what was asked of you," Penfield said,
losing his patience. "You were asked to come up with new
compositions, classical music in the vein of the work which has
gained you such a formidable reputation in your previous lives.
You had everything at your disposal, you were able to work in
complete tranquillity, you were©©"
     "We were isolated from the world out there," Bach boldly
interrupted him, pointing to the horizon somewhere beyond the
walls of the studio. "You separated us from it. How can you
expect us to work in such an unnatural situation?"
     "I beg your pardon?" Penfield asked. "What's that supposed
to mean?"
      "You will never understand," Vivaldi said. "You're an office
type, a bookkeeper, living your life buried in paperwork."
     Penfield stared him into the eyes, at a loss for words,
incomprehending.
     "Can't you see," Mozart joined in, "that music is alive?
It's part of the world it is created in. We're all children of
our times, creating music in the spirit of the moment."
        "But this isn't really your age," Penfield countered.
  "Well it is now," Mozart said. "And it's in today's world
that we'll let our creativity take its course."
        "Look," Bach said, "I'm not looking down on my Brandenburg
concertos, but this is another era which calls for different
music."
        "You can't expect me to come up with 'The Four Seasons, Part
II'," Vivaldi said.
    "Or me with 'Eine grosze Nachtmusik'," Mozart added.
   "Take a good long look at the world out there," Beethoven
said. "This is a violent age. Infernal wars are being waged,
nature is being obliterated, mankind is being smothered by its
own inventions. And yet it's also a fascinating epoch, as society
seems to be on the verge of a major revolution, what with all
this high©tech wizardry such as genetic engineering and computer
networks and..." His voice trailing off, Beethoven made grand,
sweeping gestures to express his bafflement at today's frenzied
complexity.
    "It boggles the mind," Vivaldi said. "And it's this world
with its sharp contrasts and its intense emotions, changing
beyond recognition before our very eyes, that is reflected in the
music we've recorded together."
        "Ah, yes," Penfield said. "You've been recording. And you
did so together."
      Vivaldi spread his hands, smiled. "We're four lost souls
adrift in a harsh new world. We were bound to team up together.
And for obvious reasons we had to leave you in the dark about all
this. The moment you would have found out you would have
interfered, would have tried to stop us."
      "It's time to listen now," Mozart said, pushing a few
buttons to let the tape roll. "You'll be fascinated. With all
this new technology we had an entire orchestra at our fingertips.
Bless those synthesizers and sequencers and samplers or however
you call them. We will use them for our concerts as well, the
Roll Over Beethoven Tour as we've dubbed it. Are you ready for
our first musical impressions of the world you've brought us back
into, Harry?"
  A strange noise filled the studio, a crazily pulsating beat,
overlaid with warped guitar power chords, eerily reverberating
fragments of newsreports, radio commercials, rush hour traffic
noise and lyrics hoarsely grunted or shrieked out as if in sheer
agony. The rhythm and volume of the music changed abruptly and
unexpectedly, creating an atmosphere of haunting fear and
chilling menace. The four composers were beaming with pride,
enraptured by their creation.
  "I'm not sure our investors are going to like this,"
Penfield muttered.





RICHARD AND THE EXIT

by Frank Roger


    Richard opened his eyes, not without some difficulty, and
waited till he could see clearly. Every time he awoke from his
afternoon nap, it seemed to take longer for the haze before his
eyes to dissipate. But then his naps were growing increasingly
long. Maybe that explained it.
 Groaning and sighing, he sat upright on "his" bench in this
part of the park he liked so much. Stiff as they were, his limbs
were hampering his movements rather than helping them. He rose to
his feet and ambled across the gravel path through the park. He
felt how his cheeks turned red with the exertion. Although the
mild September sun didn't radiate a lot of heat, he felt like
getting inside someplace where it would be cooler, preferably the
Golden Oldie pub where he always ran into Harry and a bunch of
other friends his age. They used to drop by regularly, but he
hadn't seen them in a while now. Come to think of it, he hadn't
seen Harry for some time either. That was strange, but then he
couldn't simply blame it all on Harry. He himself hadn't left his
place for the last couple of days because he hadn't been feeling
too well. He hadn't completely gotten rid of his cold yet, and he
still felt a dully throbbing pain where he'd hurt the fingers of
his right hand while fixing something. Now he wanted to see old
Harry again after these few days. Or had it been more than just a
few? Sometimes he had this feeling that his memory was no longer
in perfect working order.
    He had reached the pub by now, and was totally out of
breath. He coughed a few times, had to steady himself against the
wall for a moment. It took him a while before he felt ready to
address the automatic janitor.
 "Richard Helderman," he said, surprised by the hoarse
whisper he barely recognized as his own voice.
 "Your voice pattern does not match the one registered for
the person you just named," the janitor's voice system informed
him in its typically cool tone. "I'm sorry, but I can't allow
you in. Only registered customers can make use of the Golden
Oldie's services. I hope you will understand."
 Richard cursed his cold and his poor health in general. Why
was this happening to him? Life was difficult enough as it was.
        He tried once again to prove his identity, but the only
result was a vehement coughing fit. This method would lead to
nothing. He thought hard for a moment. Wasn't there an emergency
procedure just in case there was a malfunctioning and the voiceªpattern recognition failed, as it had now? It took a while for
the answer to rise to the surface of his hazy consciousness.
   Yes, yes, there were indeed backup systems. They knew that
technology could fail and this should not happen at the
customers' expense. That would be untolerable. What was it they
had devised? Wasn't it the old system, the one that had been in
use before they had introduced this voice©recognition stuff he
had never felt happy with anyway? Yes, that was it. You had to
insert your ID©card into a slot and key in your secret code. They
had wisely chosen to hold onto the old system for emergency
situations like this one. Clever thinking, guys.
     He rummaged in his pockets, checked his wallet. The bandage
around his hand didn't exactly help. It took him a while to find
his card. When was the last time he'd had to use it? Now he
should try to find this slot. With narrowed eyes he scanned the
Golden Oldie's entrance. Ah, there it was. Better give this his
full attention. After checking if he was holding the card
correctly, he inserted it into the slot, suppressing the
trembling of his hand by pure willpower. Anxiously he waited for
the janitor's reply.
   "Your card is still valid," the voice system said. "Please
introduce your secret code as proof that you are the rightful
owner of this card." With a light buzz a panel slid aside, and a
tiny keyboard became visible. Richard extended a trembling index
finger. His secret code. He had to think. He felt his cheeks turn
red with the effort and the sense of encroaching despair. A fourªdigit number? Which ones again? It had been such a long time...
And his memory had shown the tendency to let him down every once
in a while recently. He pulled his hand away from the keyboard,
clenched it into a fist, as far as the bandage allowed him to do
so, and sighed. The panel slid back in place again.
    "Without your secret code," the janitor's voice system said,
"the use of your card is unauthorized. I'm sorry, but I can't
allow you in. I hope you will understand."
     Richard cringed with powerless fury, but the janitor
continued. "Just in case you are unable to introduce your secret
code due to circumstances beyond your will, you may prove your
identity by pressing your thumb against the glowing surface that
is about to appear. The fingerprints of our regular customers are
registered in our database." Another panel slid aside, and he saw
the glowing surface appear. A wave of despair threatened to crash
down onto him as he stared at his thumb, bandaged like his other
fingers and the back of his hand. Why on earth had he tried to
fix that job a couple of days ago? He had hurt himself rather
badly, and now it was still causing problems.
  Suppose I quickly remove the bandage, he thought. But then
there was this crust on his thumb, and wouldn't that keep this
machine from recognizing his fingerprints? After all it had also
failed to recognize his voice. As he was still deliberating, the
panel slid back in place. The decision had been taken out of his
hands. "I'm sorry," the janitor said, "but I can't allow you in.
I hope you will understand."
   Richard turned his back to the Golden Oldie. He sobbed with
fury and frustration, then summoned up his courage by inhaling
deeply, which only resulted in another coughing fit. He steadied
himself against the wall, waiting until he felt better again.
After a few minutes he decided to go back home. He no longer felt
like doing anything else.
      For a moment he considered taking the subway, but quickly
rejected that idea. He didn't really live all that far away from
here. He should be able to manage this little walk if he took his
time for it. What really kept him away from the subway was the
children's gangs he was likely to run into who would no doubt
annoy him again and shout unpleasant remarks at him or even
threaten him. That prospect had made him avoid all public
transport for a while now, even if this caused him considerable
physical discomfort.
   As an aged person you weren't exactly highly thought of in
this world anymore. There were just too many of them, and they
had become a financial burden for the comparatively small
working class to support, however modest their pensions sometimes
were. How were aged people referred to? "Unproductive profiteers"
or something like that? He had stopped reading newspapers and
watching the TV news so as not to be exposed to these
accusations anymore, exactly like most of his friends had done.
The militant anti©old©age youth organizations and similar
movements weren't easy to ignore, though.
      Slowly he started on his way back home. To his relief he
didn't run into any serious problems. He encountered a group of
kids who shouted irritating remarks and threw pebbles at him,
but it wasn't all that bad. These kids were very young. He would
have had a harder time with hot©headed members of youth gangs,
who could get very excited and were easily led to radical
actions. He was hoping he would never run into any of these. He
had heard blood©curdling tales about such confrontations.
      With immense relief he arrived safely at the building where
he rented his modest apartment. "This is Richard Helderman," he
croaked, and erupted into a coughing fit that nearly tore him
apart. The walk had taken its toll. Panting heavily, he waited to
get inside. Every breath was a torment. Tears filled his eyes. He
was annoyed because the door didn't slide aside immediately.
   "Your voice pattern," he was then told, "does not match the
one registered for the person you just named. I'm sorry, but I
can't grant you entrance to this residential building. Only
registered tenants are allowed. I hope you will understand."
   The door remained closed. Richard swallowed. He reached for
his pocket where he knew he had put his ID©card, but realized at
once the futility of this attempt. He didn't have to count on his
bandaged thumb either. I'll wait for the door to open for someone
else and then I'll quickly slip inside, he thought, although he
knew very well that the door's computer system wouldn't be fooled
by such cheap tricks. There were efficient safety measures to
keep out burglars and other unauthorized persons.
      I should have stayed inside for a couple more days, he
thought. I ventured outside way too early. I locked myself out.
No, no, he hastened to correct himself, I didn't do that at all.
They have thrown me out, have showed me the exit door. I merely
gave them the opportunity to do so in a discreet way. So they've
gotten rid of another annoying old guy. How very clever. He
would have to talk about this with Harry or one of the others
next time around. It was about time he saw them again. Maybe they
simply didn't get in anywhere anymore, one by one, just like him.
      Oh, he said, I think I'm beginning to understand.





SEAS OF TIME, TIDES OF METAL

by Frank Roger


1

 "I'm afraid this means we're going to miss the party,"
Robert said grimly. "There's no way we can get out of this mess
in time." His hands finally let go of the wheel and dropped into
his lap, as if to acknowledge there was no more hope to reach
their destination within schedule. He cast a sideways glance at
his wife Miranda, nervously fidgeting about in her seat next to
him.
   "Oh Robert," she said plaintively, "why couldn't we just
have left a bit earlier?"
      "We would be just a bit further down the road in the same
traffic jam," he replied. He knew very well how eagerly she had
been looking forward to the party. And, of course, so had he. He
realized very well this would not have been just another ordinary
party where they would drop by, say hello, conduct some mildly
interesting conversations and leave at the first opportunity to
present itself. At this particular party he knew he would have
run into a few highly influential people he had been eager to
meet on a social basis. People whose power to pull certain
strings and exert certain pressures might prove interesting for
his business prospects. Sadly, he would now have to wait for
another occasion, if one such would present itself at all.
   He remembered the sinking feeling he'd had, about half an
hour ago, as he had seen all those bright brake lights flare up
in front of him, like a swarm of blood©red fireflies stirred into
sudden activity, and then the traffic on Westport State Highway
had slowed down and finally come to a standstill. Oh no, he had
thought, not another traffic jam, not at this moment. They
couldn't afford to arrive late at mr. Henderson's party. It might
have tremendous consequences, and they both had been so eagerly
looking forward to it. But of course worrying hadn't helped.
There were cars in front of them as far as the eye could see, all
four lanes thoroughly packed. Soon it was no different behind
them. After ten minutes or so Robert had cut the engine, as had
most of the other drivers.
     Now, some thirty minutes later, nothing had changed. A
number of people had left their cars, some to have a chat with
people meandering aimlessly between the immobilized vehicles,
others merely to stretch their legs, some even to gesticulate
furiously and shout questions and obscenities, as if this display
of rage and frustration would set the strings of unmoving cars
back into motion. Robert turned to his wife and said, "I'll go
and take a look around, okay?"
 "Fine."
        "Promise you won't drive off without me."
      She sighed and looked him in the eyes, her features creased
with tension and weariness.
    "I'm not in the mood for that kind of humor now, Robert. So
if you please..."
      He got out of the car, slowly walked down the road towards a
handful of men who were talking in agitated voices, making
sweeping gestures, while others were slumped against their cars,
watching and listening at ease. Robert doubted they would have
any useful comments on offer, but then again they might have
heard an explanation for all this or at least some interesting
bits of news.
  "Good afternoon," he said as he walked up to them, "does
anyone have an idea what the problem might be?"
        "Not yet," one of the men said, a grey©haired, fortyish type
wearing a business suit, "but I suggest we listen to the news in
half an hour. Maybe we'll find out then. This traffic jam doesn't
seem to have a beginning or an end, as far as we can determine
from our vantage point over here. So I don't think it's a simple
traffic accident or anything like that."
       "What else could it be?" a younger man asked, not bothering
to remove the cigarette dangling from his lips as he spoke. "A
car strike?"
   "Whatever it is, it certainly ruined my plans, as I'm sure
it has ruined yours. I was supposed to catch a plane flight which
I'll probably miss now. I hope it will be possible to book
another flight for tomorrow morning. I'm attending a conference,
and believe me, this delay is really highly inconvenient for me."
      "I suppose that's true for all of us," Robert said, but as
several men started to speak at once he decided to walk on,
hoping to see or hear something that Miranda would welcome as
good news.
     He covered a few hundred meters in all, every now and then
exchanging a few words with others who were wandering about, but
found out very little about the nature of their ordeal. Most
people said it had lasted long enough now, wondered what exactly
might have caused this apparently gigantic blocking©up, or
informed him of the plans they'd had and would no doubt have to
cancel now.
    He walked on until he reached a bend, where the road sloped
down gently and he could see another three©lane highway joining
this one. It was equally packed with cars © and all equally
unmoving. Robert decided he knew enough for now and briskly
walked back to his own car.
    "Well?" Miranda asked as he got in. "What did you find out?"
	"Nothing worthwhile," he said, and threw a glance at his
watch. "But in a few minutes we may hear some explanation for all
this on the radio." He switched on the car radio, and music
flowed out of the loudspeakers, a vocalist snapped into life in
mid©sentence, a song launched in mid©chorus. They waited until
the music faded away, and sat upright as the newsreader presented
today's headlines. When he had finished Robert switched off the
radio, and sighed.
     "So now we know," Miranda said.
        "We don't know everything," Robert replied. "For instance,
we still don't know when all this will be over."
       "I was trying not to think about that," she countered, and
closed her eyes for a few moments, as if to shut out all the
unwanted thoughts from her mind.
       The news hadn't come as a complete surprise, Robert had to
concede. He had been aware of the social unrest that had been
brewing for some time, but he had never expected it to reach its
boiling point at this moment and in the form it was now
manifesting itself in. Some of the images he had seen on the TV
news in recent weeks came flooding back. There had been a fair
number of demonstrations and small©scale actions in varying
degrees of seriousness. Public transport had been threatened with
heavy personnel cutbacks, which had considerably raised the
tension among all parties concerned. Agriculturalists had seen
their profit margins dwindle away, and had given free rein to
their displeasure on various occasions. There had been strikes
and minor conflicts and skirmishes involving trade union
militants. Major actions had been announced by a variety of
professional organisations. There had also been cases of student
protest, but that of course was nothing new.
   Now, however, it seemed that a number of organisations had
decided to mount a large©scale action, concentrated and
flawlessly orchestrated, in order to state their rising
disenchantment with government indifference. Political leaders
apparently weren't prepared to open a dialogue, let alone meet
the demands of the raging crowds. Details of this mega©action had
been kept secret, so as not to jeopardize its success. Earlier
this morning, Robert had already learned that there would be no
public transport today. By now it had become clear that this
strike had been combined with a freezing of all private transport
by blocking a number of strategically chosen crossroads and
highway junctions. According to the newsreader, the action had
been highly successful © but that much Robert had already
witnessed. There was one detail that worried him : the revelation
that the action would be continued until it had yielded the
desired results. For the time being there was no news on that
score. That meant they would have to wait © but then again,
waiting was the only thing they could now do in any case.
      Time passed, and as there was nothing to do, it passed
painfully slowly. Late afternoon faded into early evening. There
was little to relieve the encroaching boredom. Most people had
tired of their roaming between the cars and had sought refuge in
their own vehicles. For want of anything better to do, Robert and
Miranda observed the setting sun reflecting off a myriad metal
roofs and setting them ablaze with a deepening orange glow. At
regular intervals Robert switched on the car radio, but they
learned little that shed new light on their predicament.
       "I suppose the party was a big succes," Robert said,
shattering the silence that had reigned in the car for too long.
       "I wonder how many people were able to get there. Honestly,
I don't think many of them happen to live around the corner." His
wife's voice was edged with irritation. He knew very well that
sarcasm was lost on her in situations like this one. He would
have to adopt a serious stance from now on.
    "True enough. So maybe we didn't miss a thing. So what do we
do now?"
       "I suppose we will all have to spend the night in our cars,"
she said, her voice calm and steady but without even a hint of
resignation.
   "What a terrific prospect. Any other bright ideas?"
    "As a matter of fact, I have," Miranda said. "I'm growing
hungry and thirsty, Robert."
   "I'm afraid I didn't bring along any supplies, darling. But
perhaps you did?"
      "Robert, please be serious. If I recall correctly, we passed
a service station just before we had to stop here. I'm sure
they're also selling snacks and drinks."
       "You'd like me to go over and take a look?" She didn't deem
it necessary to reply or even to nod. Robert got out of the car
and walked back between the rows of vehicles in the gathering
twilight. Miranda had been right. There turned out to be a gas
station about a kilometer back, and it was one of those large
highway service stations selling a variety of items.
Unfortunately, Miranda wasn't the only person aware of its
existence, nor was Robert the only one to honour it with a visit.
He had to limit himself to a couple of Mars bars and two cans of
coke. Station personnel told him and other disappointed
customers to come back early in the morning © by then they should
have new supplies of everything. Unless, of course, the trucks
wouldn't be able to get this far. He hadn't bothered to ask what
they were supposed to do if that turned out to be the case. Maybe
Miranda would think of something. Her mind seemed to work well
under pressure in general and in emergency situations in
particular. Robert trudged back to his car, clutching his meager
acquisitions as if they were some precious treasure. And, for all
he knew, they were.

Ã **Ã2

  "Well," Miranda said, "this wasn't exactly the most
comfortable night I've ever had."
      "I wonder what today will bring," Robert groaned, stroking
his stubbled chin. "Breakfast? Moving traffic? A hot bath, a day
off to compensate for this nonsense, or more time stuck here on
this godawful stretch of tarmac?"
      "Speaking of breakfast, what about that service station?
Please go and take a look, just in case. Even if you can only
find some drinks it would be worth the effort."
 "Do you really think they have new supplies by now?"
   "There's only one way to find out, Robert."
    "I suppose you're right, darling." He closed his eyes for a
few seconds, inhaled deeply, savoured these moments of calm and
peace in the knowledge that they might well be the last such
moments to present themselves today, and got out of the car to go
and find something, anything that might serve as breakfast.
    He could have spared himself the effort, as he had already
feared. The service station was closed. Obviously, if new
supplies had been sent for at all, they had failed to get here.
By closing down the shop those in charge had avoided having to
face disappointed or perhaps even furious customers. As a matter
of fact, a fair crowd had assembled around the station, and a
number of men were angrily giving vent to their emotions. Robert
didn't bother to find out what these people had to say.
        He returned to his car as fast as he could, cold and hunger
and emptiness all vying for prominence in his mind. As he got
back he discovered to his amazement that Miranda had left the
car too. So she had decided to go hunting herself, no doubt
having little or no confidence in his own efforts. To be honest,
he couldn't blame her. On the other hand, he thought as he got
into the car, maybe she had only gone out for a walk. A minute
later or so, he switched on the car radio to hear the latest news
broadcast. The headlines could be quickly summarized : the
traffic©blocking was highly effective over a very wide area.
Literally thousands of people had been forced to spend the night
in their cars, and the end was not yet in sight. Quite on the
contrary, social unrest and the actions it entailed appeared to
be still on the rise. As the government was showing no signs of
giving in or even a willingness to discuss the issues at hand,
the actions would be reinforced rather than discontinued. As a
matter of fact, the newsreader said, the actions seemed to be
spreading to other sections of economic and social activity.
   As soon as the news broadcast was over, Robert switched off
the radio in disgust. What did this information mean for them,
all these people immobilized in their cars, far from their homes,
their families, their jobs? For how long would this madness
continue? Who would provide food and water and sanitary
facilities? His train of thought was interrupted as Miranda got
back into the car. To his surprise she carried a few plastic
bottles of mineral water and a supply of chocolate wafers.
     "So you've had more luck than I did," he said approvingly,
as she passed him a wafer and one of the bottles. "Where did you
find all this?"
        "As I was sitting here while you were away," she said in
between bites, "I saw a few people coming back from up ahead with
supplies and asked them where I could get some. They told me a
few truck drivers had started to sell their loads of supplies to
help out people."
      "How did they get here?"
       "They didn't get here to help us or anything. They were
simply caught in this mess just like the rest of us. I decided to
buy enough to last us some time. I could have bought more, but as
you can understand there were quite a number of interested people
gathering there."
      "Well, I suppose we'll have to make do with chocolate
wafers for a while. But I'm afraid these few truckloads aren't an
infinite source of supplies."
       "Let's hope this situation gets resolved before our food
supply becomes a real problem."
        They continued eating for a while in silence. As it began to
rain, most people preferred to stay in their cars. Once again,
there was little to do but wait and listen to the radio every
hour. However, the news broadcast at noon didn't exactly brighten
their mood. Instead of giving the usual overview of today's
headlines, the newsreader announced that due to another social
conflict, all personnel employed in the printed media, TV and
radio were going on strike for an indefinite period of time
until the government had shown at least its willingness to
negotiate new terms and agreements. All programs, including news
broadcasts, would be replaced by uninterrupted light music.
Their only link with the outside world had now been severed. They
already were cut off from society as the social and economic
focus of their lives. Now they were truly and completely
isolated from it.

Ã **Ã3

    As he awoke Robert noticed it had stopped raining. He took a
swig from their next to last bottle of water, wolfed down a
chocolate wafer and felt slightly better. He left the car to
empty his bladder on the central reservation. The sky was an even
expanse of gray, and the oppressive grayness seemed to have
pervaded the entire atmosphere of the roadscape, as if in an
effort to add to the bleakness of their situation. A gray,
unappealing future on the road, Robert thought, that's all we've
got left now. And the road is what our world has narrowed down
to. No doubt their total isolation would only enhance this
feeling.
       As he returned to his car he noticed that the slamming of
the door must have awakened Miranda. She looked as if she'd had a
terrible night ©  of course she hadn't been able to wash
properly, remove her makeup or put on new makeup. She ate and
drank a little too, and said, "We have only onhad by now indeed fallen prey to their
mindlessly brutal attackers, had as a matter of fact been
virtually defenseless. To Robert's surprise, the battle was far
from over after the last artist had succumbed.
 "This is what I meant," Robert said, pointing to the
attackers who were now turning against each other. "This isn't a
clan working together, but a bunch of people throwing themselves
upon the same target, acting individually with their own
interests in mind."
    "They simply don't want to share the meat," Miranda offered
by way of explanation. "These people are hungry. They want to
survive."
      "So they act ruthlessly. They maim and kill. And eat what
they kill. Can't you see, Robert? This is the way out. Whether
you like it or not." Geoff shot him a piercing stare.
  My God, he's right, Robert thought, watching as the winners
of the battle slashed and hacked away at the bodies of the fallen
artists and attackers. We've become a race of hunters, operating
individually, and reverting to cannibalism in our struggle to
survive. The very idea was horrible, despicable, simply
nauseating. But was there a valid alternative? What else could
they possibly do but blend in with the rest of the Road's
population, going with the flow of life as it was lived here.
  "Robert, I'm hungry," Miranda said, her voice edged with a
mixture of urgent need, barely controlled fear and rising
despair.
       "We're all hungry," Matthew joined in. "Robert?"
       "There's food out there," Geoff added. "Do we leave it to
others to feast on, while we starve to death? Come on, Robert."
        Robert nodded. He would have to accept the inevitable. At
least he was glad his clan wasn't on the verge of breaking up
yet, as others apparently had. This might give them an edge in
the increasingly tough game of survival. He would try to keep his
men together for as long as possible.
  "Alright," he finally said. "The hunting season is open.
Let's go."
     Off they went, their hunger almost forgotten, swept out of
their minds by the thrill of their first chase.

Ã *)Ã11

     "We're becoming good at this," Geoff said, chuckling, as
they were cutting up the body of the man they had caught a few
moments ago with the crudely shaped knives they had fashioned out
of car parts. Although the man had been fairly young and pretty
agile, they had cornered him easily and clubbed him to death with
unconcealed glee. Miranda hadn't participated in the actual hunt,
but she had merrily and excitedly cheered her clan members as
they mercilessly finished their job.
    This was their fourth attempt at catching and killing a lone
road dweller, and their third successful one. This score filled
Robert with pride and happiness. It proved his clan was strong
and stood a decent chance at more than short©term survival on the
Road. All ethical considerations had been thrown to the winds.
"Ethics won't fill stomachs," he had said after their first kill,
when they had eaten their first portions of human meat roasted on
a campfire of torn car upholstery.
     "What's ethics?" Geoff had asked.
      "Never mind," Robert had replied. He had discovered the
others were having more and more trouble with long sentences and
terminology that was more than simply colloquial. Communication
was perfect as long as short and snappy sentences were used,
simple orders, amplified by clear, unambiguous gestures. All the
rest had become superfluous. High©brow talk and convoluted
sentences would not help them to survive on the Road. And
survival was all that mattered.
        As Robert and Neal were preparing a fire, they heard Miranda
cry for help from behind their backs.
  "What the hell do you think you're doing?" Robert asked,
furious as he noticed Matthew, who had finished his job of
cutting up the dead body, now turning his attention towards
Miranda with totally different intentions. Ever since Robert had
taken over the leadership of this clan, Miranda had been his, and
his exclusively. Matthew's initiative was unthinkable and
unforgivable.
  "I need your wife," the man stated matter©of©factly. "I'm
hungry. I'm talking about another kind of hunger. I'm gonna
satisfy that hunger now."
 "You're out of your mind," Robert said. "Touch her and
you're dead." He felt anger rising within him, swelling into
raging fury, an unstoppable tide washing away all other emotions
and obliterating everything blocking its path.
 Matthew giggled, turned his face away from Robert and
dropped his pants. Before he had a chance to tackle this new job,
Robert snatched up the rudimentary knife still lying on the
ground and stabbed Matthew in the back. Growling muffled sounds
and vomiting blood, the man collapsed. Soon his motionless body
was soaked in a puddle of its own blood, an empty hulk stripped
of its life.
   Miranda and the three remaining male clan members had
watched the incident without so much as batting an eyelid. Geoff
merely remarked, "More food. Well done, Robert," and directed his
attention to the fire, anxious to help Neil.
   Strange, Robert thought, how this could happen. I've killed
Matthew as if this was a common punishment for the crime he was
about to commit. I grow irritated, and I kill. It's a ritual I
perform casually, without giving the matter much thought. He had
acted on impulse. And it had come so naturally. He had noticed a
problem, had looked for a solution, and done what had seemed to
be the most efficient. Nobody had questioned his authority to do
so. He didn't ponder the incident very long. There were more
urgent matters to attend to. Preparing food. Watching out for
unwelcome visitors. Hunters or looters. Eating. Protection. And
continuing their never©ending trek. They still had some way to
go.
    Later that day, as nightfall approached and they started to
look out for a place to spend the night, they passed some more
pieces of Road art that must once have been fairly impressive.
Robert couldn't judge the works of art properly, as they had been
completely demolished.
 Who would do a thing like that? he wondered. And why? What
could have been the iconoclasts' motives? Destroying art, out
here on the Road, didn't serve any purpose. It was a totally
senseless, gratuitous act. An act of madness, a symptom of a
disease that was attacking the Road's society from within, a
cancer gnawing away at its system. As Robert stared at the warped
fragments of the metal sculpture scattered all over the ground,
like withered autumn leaves in a forest of steel, the thought
struck him that this act of wanton destruction signalled the end
of another era of the Road's history.
  They had seen only scattered individuals on the Road today,
haggard, filthy creatures, casting furtive glances all around
them constantly, hunting when they were not being hunted
themselves. Their lives had been reduced to a daily struggle for
survival. Hunting, eating, avoiding being caught by other
hunters. Theirs might well be the only clan still in existence.
How much time would it take before his men started drifting apart
as well? Or would his clan rather be obliterated in a more
violent way? Would they fall prey to a combined attack of a
handful of starved hunters, engaged in a ferocious killing spree
in a last©ditch effort to fill their stomachs and extend their
miserable lives for a few more days? Or would the clan destroy
itself, member turning against member, drowning the clan in its
own blood?
     The thriving clan©based Road society had completely
vanished, the Road's population had been decimated and the Road
itself had devolved into a jungle, with the law of the jungle as
its only constant. The evolution they were witnessing, or rather
devolution, was still accelerating, had by now become a dizzying
downward spiral plummeting towards unfathomable depths. Robert
wondered where it would end © if there would be an end to it at
all.

Ã *)Ã12

        The kid hadn't stood a chance. It had been some time since
Robert had seen a child on the Road. He wondered how this frail
boy, seven or eight years old, had survived up to this point at
all. He was emaciated, could barely stand on his legs, didn't
have the energy to run as he noticed Robert's clan coming towards
him. In a burst of compassion and humaneness, so unusual and
atypical that it took Robert by surprise, he chose to spare the
child. The other members of his clan didn't quite share this
humanitarian view.
     "He's mine," Geoff growled. "I've seen him first."
     "Nonsense. Leave him to me."
   "No way we can share him. No meat on him. Skin and bones.
Just a mouthful."
      "He's mine."
   "He's yours if you catch him first. And I won't let you."
      Remarkable, Robert thought. This conversation, short and
simple as it had been, would have been totally incomprehensible
if he hadn't seen the facial expressions and eloquent gestures
accompanying the words, spat out in growls and snarls, the sounds
barely articulated, scarcely recognizable as human speech. There
was still a form of communication, but the non©verbal part
outweighed the verbal one.
     And now, Robert noticed, communication proves insufficient
to settle the dispute and the interlocutors resort to pure
physical violence. He and Miranda stepped back as Neil and Geoff
lunged out at each other, parrying blows, whipping their fists
around and kicking viciously, dancing around each other as if the
ground they were standing on was too hot for their feet to rest
on, a mad ballet directed by a depraved choreographer with a
penchant for the morbid. After a few minutes both men were
bleeding from multiple injuries, which drained their forces but
didn't diminish their determination to make their opponent bite
the dust.
      The fight went on until the bitter end. Almost
simultaneously the two men, embracing each other in a chestªcrushing grip, collapsed to the ground and remained motionless,
the blood seeping profusely from their wounds coalescing into one
quickly expanding puddle. Soon it became clear that all life had
been drained out of them. They had been united in death, found
themselves reduced to an amorphous blob of bloodless tissue,
twisted limbs protruding from it at awkward angles, and partly
covered with flimsy shreds, all that remained of the tattered
rags that had served them as clothing.
 Robert and Miranda exchanged glances.
  "The kid has gone," Robert remarked. "He grabbed the
opportunity to save his life. Doesn't matter. We have enough
fresh food now."
       "We're alone," Miranda replied. "No more clan. Just the two
of us."
   "We're survivors. That much is clear. We seem to fit our
environment. We're well©adapted. We're not done yet." He licked
his lips. A warm glow ran through his body, an invigorating
tingling sensation that was setting his skin on fire.
  "We have to celebrate," he whispered. The glow intensified,
grew into a rush comparable to the fit of raging fury he'd had
which had driven him to kill Matthew, although this time its
effect was totally different.
  Without caring to seek out a safe spot, out of sight of
hunters roaming across this stretch of the Road, he forced
Miranda down on her back and took her. She complied without
protest, accepting Robert's sexual aggression as a natural aspect
of life. A celebration, he had called it. If this was a
celebration, it was one in tune with the harshness and
dehumanized quality of life©on©the©Road as it was currently
lived. This is not love©making, Robert thought, one corner of his
mind still capable of rational thought while he was laboring away
on top of his wife's coldly unresponsive body. This sexual ritual
he was carrying out held the same degree of mindless brutality as
Geoff and Neal's deadly pavane of a few moments ago.
   Only this time the battle didn't end in death for either of
the participants. Exhausted, panting heavily, Robert withdrew
from his wife. She remained down on her back for a while,
groaning and whimpering, recovering from the painful celebration
Robert had treated her to.
     Cleansed and satisfied, he rose back to his feet and stared
out over the Road. Presently Miranda struggled into an upright
position, and also stared into the distance, standing next to
him.
    Strange how the Road has changed, Robert noted. There were
almost no people to be seen anymore, wherever he looked. The cars
and vans and trucks were hardly recognizable as such. They had
served a variety of purposes, had been partly dismantled or
stripped of their usable parts, had suffered damage from human
hands and rough weather. Furthermore, so much dirt and sand had
been blown onto the Road, so much debris and detritus had
accumulated, that a thick layer of grayish material now covered
everything.
    But the Road itself was also growing less discernible, for
there was more than just the layer of dirt and rubbish covering
the tarmac. Another phenomenon seemed to be manifesting itself
with increasing forcefulness. Various types of vegetation were
taking up root in the soil gradually replacing the tarmac. Moss,
grass, some weeds and the odd fern could be seen regularly. Vines
and tendrils were creeping all over the skeletons of the cars,
forming clusters and wild outgrowths, beachheads of an
unstoppable invasion by plant©life of a territory constructed and
once solely inhabited by mankind, in a dimly remembered past
relegated to mythology rather than history.
    Was this invasion a harbinger of another new epoch looming
on the horizon? And what exactly did it mean? They could only
find out by continuing their trek and observing the Road as they
proceeded.
     Onwards they went.



13

       "Look." Miranda pointed. "No place for us."
    Robert only understood his wife's muffled words because he
could guess what she was saying. He had seen the same things that
had caught her attention, had drawn the same conclusion. No doubt
they would eventually suffer the same fate.
    Miranda's conclusion, alarming as it was, could not be
denied or discarded.
   This outcome was inevitable, Robert thought. If evolution
was indeed being rewound, as had become increasingly apparent,
then it was only logical that plant©life would replace mankind,
reclaim the territory that had been taken away from it, reinstall
its hegemony, and eventually obliterate all traces of the now
vanquished conqueror, who was at once its successor and its
predecessor.
   Now it seemed their trek had become meaningless. They hadn't
eaten in several days, simply because there was no food to be
found. They hadn't encountered any other Road dwellers, hadn't
even seen evidence of the presence of any. But if the human race
had been wiped off the map, it hadn't happened as if by miracle.
It was the natural consequence of one of the laws of nature. If
the biotope of a given species was destroyed, that species was
doomed to become extinct. Mankind had dwindled away into near
oblivion, barring the odd individual or couple such as Robert and
his wife still eking out a paltry existence, because the Road had
been pushed out of existence, washed away by a tide of vegetation
rolling in, a relentlessly expanding carpet of grasses and weeds
and bushes and even trees taking possession of everything it
found on its path.
       By now the Road was barely visible. When he peered closely,
studying bumps and hillocks arranged in certain patterns that he
assumed to be vegetation©encrusted vehicles, Robert could still
determine with some certainty where the Road had to be. But a
normal trek was no longer possible, or even desirable. And now
they also lacked the energy to continue, as food could no longer
be found. The sensation of hunger had plagued them for a
mercifully short time, had then subsided and disappeared
altogether, leaving them weak and empty.
       Miranda had been right. There was no place left for them on
the Road. There was hardly a Road left. He sank to his knees,
then crouched down, resigned. His wife, he noted, had also given
up the fight. He felt that he wouldn't rise to his feet again,
and neither would Miranda. He lacked the energy to do so, as well
as the will©power.
     We've reached the end of the line, he thought. You swallowed
the Road, he said, addressing a tendril surreptitiously wrapping
itself around his left foot, so go ahead and swallow us now.

Ã *)Ã14

        Voices, dimly heard through a barrage of static and
background noise. And faces, vaguely perceived, hovering in front
of him, looming through fog©like swirls limiting his field of
vision to his immediate surroundings.
  He tried to push himself into an upright position, but only
succeeded to a certain extent. He blinked, blinked again until
the fog dissipated and he could see more clearly. The faces had
dissipated along with the fog. The voices changed pitch and grew
indistinguishable from the wind and the rustling of the leaves.
        I was dreaming, he thought. Or daydreaming. Or perhaps
hallucinating. My mind is playing tricks. Consciousness was
returning only intermittently, and each time his clarity of mind
had been reduced.
      For a moment he studied the lush foliage all around, the
luxurious mass of vegetation engulfing him, enveloping him nearly
completely, bristling with life and eager to assume command and
reach the pinnacle of devolution.
      His vision was blurring. He gasped for breath, dropped back
onto the ground. Maybe this was the last time my consciousness
returned, he thought. The faces and voices were a sort of
farewell, a final spark of life, the last flickering of humanity
before the descent of darkness.
        He could feel how all visual and aural sensations seeped
slowly away. This is the end, he knew. It's over for us. Maybe
it's better this way. He closed his eyes, resigned, ready to
welcome the utter blackness of oblivion.
       When oblivion finally came, it was green rather than black,
but he bid it a warm welcome all the same.
written all over his face, and prepared to lunge toward the naked
man in front of him.

ntradicting beliefs expressed earlier on and considered not to
be subject to change.
  A short pause allowed us to check the current state of the
agonizing city. The two bridges could only faintly be seen, but
it was obvious they had suffered irreparable damage. We could
only guess how many people had died as they had been crushed or
had tumbled into the cold water of the Bay. Large parts of the
city were on fire, many smaller buildings had collapsed. The city
now proudly displayed a nightmarish máálááe of shell©shocked
people, frantically struggling through debris and rubble, acrid
smoke filling their lungs, blazing©hot fires eagerly reaching out
to engulf them with hungry flames. The innocent victims, or
rather unwitting actors in d'Angelo's vision, were only given
short respite.
 The moment of the Grand Finale had finally arrived. It
started with a deeply resonant rumbling, that we, high up in the
air though we were, felt rather than heard. We caught our
collective breaths as understanding dawned of what we were about
to witness. Only now we grasped how thorough the preparations for
this piece of art must have been, and we marvelled at the
flawless perfection with which it was being presented. D'Angelo's
team were dyed©in©the©wool professionals, setting standards
comparable only to those their employer was setting for his
peers. The tapestry of blazing fires that was now San Francisco
started to tremble, casting an eerily wavering light over the
scenes of destruction. A masterfully choreographed sequence of
quakes was now hitting the city, and a round of deafening
applause and cheers went up as it became clear which awesome
powers were being brought into play.
   We no longer viewed what we saw beneath us as a city
inhabited by human beings fighting for their lives in the face of
an unexplainable catastrophe, but rather as a gigantic
construction which was being dismantled systematically, with due
attention paid to the esthetic aspects of the process. The city
was becoming less recognizable as such with every single hit. One
by one the major hotels gave way to the pressure, sagged,
crumbled and finally collapsed in geysers of dust, concrete and
stone. A massive applause went up as the towering Financial
district fell in one majestic awe©inspiring swoop. The quiltwork
of fires seemed to dance a pavane as the crust on which the city
rested was shaken to the point of being pulverized.
    A standing ovation was reserved for the coup de grace, as
wide crevices opened up and large parts of the city were
swallowed, and finally the raging waters of the Bay washed
tsunami©like over the smoldering ruins, extinguishing the
multitude of fires in towering fountains of vapor, and gradually
darkness descended, authoritatively reinstalling the night, and
thus signalling the end of the presentation.
  We felt our zeppelin gaining altitude, and the lights were
switched back on. Discussions and analyses grew into an
impenetrable brouhaha, notes were frantically scribbled down,
entered into laptop computers or spoken into recorders. An
appraisal of this amazing tour de force was already being
attempted, comparing it with d'Angelo's existing body of work and
viewing it against the larger background of contemporary art in
general. Deeper meanings and hidden symbolism were being
discovered, interpretation upon interpretation was being offered,
layer after layer of insightful understanding was being removed
as the gathered critics were probing for the essence of
d'Angelo's latest addition to his oeuvre.
      As we set course back to the Festival center, we barely
noticed the invitation to come back to next year's Festival,
completely engrossed as we were in our activities.
     Needless to tell, we will all be back next year, wondering
how this year's achievements can possibly be equalled, let alone
surpassed. And no doubt we will be pleasantly surprised once
again.

they drove the short distance to
Bruford's house. Susan thanked him for his kindness in taking
time out to guide her around, and he apologized for not being
able to provide her with any substantial evidence that would have
allowed her to write a great story. They parted in good spirits.




 **Ã4

 Susan sat back and closed her eyes for a minute, savoring
this moment of deep satisfaction. Moments like these were
becoming all too rare. Her trip to London had been far from
fruitless, which made a change from her previous few ventures
into the realm of the possibly reemerged.
      She had come across some reports of a colony of very early
hominids which had reemerged in the outskirts of a London
suburb. Apparently they weren't too keen on establishing contact
with the human population of the neighborhood, yet they seemed
determined to stay within the confines of the area they had
claimed as their territory. The authorities had decided to leave
them in peace until a specially appointed committee of
politicians and scientists had reached a decision about how to
deal with the situation in the best interest of all parties
concerned. The local population had in its turn decided not to
chase the creatures away.
      Susan had travelled to London instantly, viewing this case
as too good an opportunity to pass up. For one thing there seemed
to be little doubt that this was a genuine reemergence. For
another thing, the hominids were creatures of a much more recent
era than previous reemergees, which lent a special flavor to this
case. She had been able to collect a wealth of material :
pictures, interviews with the people who had first spotted their
new neighbors and with local politicians, enough to write a big,
fat story. That should keep her going for a while.
     Then, one night in her hotel, she had heard a few
interesting news items on the radio. One concerned a Cro©Magnon
family which had been discovered in Wales, an even more
convincing indication that more recent species seemed to be
reemerging. Confirmation of this case was still pending, though.
The other item was the reason why she was now here in London
Heathrow, waiting to catch a plane to San Francisco, California.
       Persistent rumors had it that Jimi Hendrix had been seen in
a number of San Francisco music clubs, climbing up on stage to
jam with the bands who were playing there that night. Now these
rumors weren't really new as such. Hendrix had been seen before,
in a variety of places, as had other rock legends. Hadn't someone
spotted John Bonham once in a Led Zeppelin cover band? And then
there was Jim Morrison, also frequently seen in the unlikeliest
of places. So why had she decided to fly to San Francisco if she
knew so well that the chances of Hendrix really being there were
negligible at best? She didn't believe it herself, yet she felt
somehow attracted to it. An idea had occurred to her, an idea she
knew to be highly irrational, yet she had found herself unable to
cast it aside. Suppose, just suppose that Patrick had indeed
reemerged (admittedly there were no indications whatsoever that
recently deceased persons had done so) wouldn't he be drawn
towards a place Hendrix was rumored to hang around? Regardless of
the fact it was probably just a silly rumor as deep down she
knew, but then again, if there was a chance of her family being
reunited, however slim, however unreal, however absurd the notion
(why didn't she put it out of her head right away?), it would be
foolish to let the opportunity slip through her fingers.
       Anyway, she could use a vacation, and San Francisco seemed
like the ideal place to go to. And going after rock stars would
make a welcome change from chasing un©extinct species, most of
which were false leads anyhow. Better to think of it this way.
 She threw a glance at her watch. Forty©five minutes till
boarding time. Who knew, she suddenly thought, where Patrick
might now be. Perhaps in some other airport terminal, waiting for
his flight to take off. She shook her head. She would have to
force this silly notion out of her mind. She had to think of
something else. Imagine what San Francisco would have to offer.
She hadn't been there in years. No doubt she would be thrilled.
Especially if open arms, and I felt at home, I seemed to fit right in.
I had no trouble taking part in their activities."
     "What were these activities, and how would you describe
those experiences?"
    "My main activity was costume designing for the performances
that were staged in the Grove's own little theater. It was a job
with an artistic dimension, and I quickly grew very fond of it. I
had the feeling it gave meaning to my otherwise rather dull life
in the village."
       "Didn't the artistic activities in the village appeal to
you?"
  "Not really. I was never involved in any. Somehow they
failed to spark off any real interest in me. It all seemed so
bland, colorless, contrived even. I just couldn't relate to it.
The Grove was different. I can't really put it into words."
    "They say art is a reflection of the society it is created
in."
   "I suppose it is. So what?"
    "Do you have any idea how this statement can be applied to
your situation?"
       Albert shook his head. "Beats me."
     "Weren't the Brotherhood's artistic creations centered
around something that happened to be illegal?"
 "Well, yes, if that's what you mean."
  "Suppose I said that the Brotherhood's artistic endeavors
were a vehicle for getting across their revolutionary ideals."
 "Revolutionary? Really, I never had the idea these people
were preparing a revolution."
  "Can you deny that the reintroduction of clothes was a key
element of the Brotherhood's philosophy?"
      "Of course not. Clothes were what the Brotherhood was all
about."
        "Isn't that a negation of the values we hold so dear in our
village?"
      "Well, I don't know..."
      "Do you claim that the Brotherhood's leaders ignored the
basic moral values ruling our society?"
        "Of course not. They're all village citizens, after all.
They've all had the same education the rest of us had. They're in
no way different from you and me."
     "In that case they cannot possibly have deviated from the
norms we've set ourselves unwittingly?"
        "Well, not really."
    "That means they know very well why clothes were discarded
and eventually outlawed."
      "I suppose they do." What was she driving at?
  "Can you deny then that by reintroducing clothes they also
strove to reinstall the old system of social classes that went
with it? Weren't they heading for a revival of the inequality of
all men and women? Weren't they rejecting the pure and intrinsic
beauty of the human form, the spirit of living in perfect harmony
with nature?"
  "Well, I hadn't thought about it in those terms..."
    "In what other terms could one possibly think about it?"
       Albert remained silent. She's had me there, he thought. This
is the end. I've talked myself into a corner. Clever girl. I
should have known, of course. No doubt these people were trained
for this kind of work. And he had fallen for it, had walked right
into the trap. He had been naive. Maybe he should have kept his
mouth shut, or given evasive or at least uncompromising answers.
Now, unfortunately, it was too late for any of that. And he
didn't think he would get a second chance...
   "Do you plead guilty then?"
    "Do I have a choice?"
"Denying it at this stage would merely aggravate your case."
   "Let's just say I'm guilty then."
      The officer nodded. "Very well then. You will be notified of
the sentence that will be passed."
     "I'm looking forward to it," Albert replied drily.

Ã **Ã6

   Six months, Albert thought. That wasn't too bad. It would be
over soon enough. Half a year and he would be back in the
village. Determined to make no mistakes anymore. Not to give in
to certain urges, however satisfying that might seem at first
glance. At least the village had nice weather all year round.
That would be markedly different in that reeducation camp up
north where he would spend six months. Six possibly rather long
months. Especially for a chilly, shivery type like him. Cold
really gets to me, he'd told the officer. And cold certainly
would up there. Cold would have ample time to get to him. He
would be chilled to the bone. Shivers ran down Albert's back, as
if in anticipation. To his dismay, the shivers didn't stop. Oh, I
see, he thought. The six months just can't wait to begin.

rs off so he would have to deal with this
customer. He smiled his most professional smile and asked, "Can I
help you?"
     The man climbed onto a barstool and ordered a coffee.
  "My car broke down," he said. "The guy at the gas station
next door said he'd be able to fix it, but it could take a few
hours. Guess I'll hang around here till he's finished the job."
        Oh no, Jerry thought. Just what I needed. There goes my
afternoon. "You're welcome," he said, in as neutral a tone as
possible.
      He was hoping the man would produce a book or newspaper from
his pocket and read the hours away, only looking up to order
another coffee every so often, but he was wrong, as he should
have known. The man clearly wanted to engage in a conversation.
He caught Jerry's eye, and asked, "Do you get lots of customers
here? This looks like a pretty desolate place to me."
  "You could say it's pretty quiet around here," Jerry
answered. "But that's exactly how I like it, most of the time."
He looked the man in the eyes and saw right away that his
curiosity hadn't been satisfied. His dislike for the man was
growing.
       "Was that what made you come and work here? The quietness?
Being far away from big cities, places alive with business,
teeming with people?" He waited for a reply, then added, somewhat
hesitatingly, "You don't mind my asking, do you?"
      "No, of course not," Jerry lied. This guy was used to
getting information out of people. A newspaperman, a TV reporter?
He knew this type. As a matter of fact, he loathed his kind. He
believed he had every reason to. But the man was a customer, of
course, and had to be treated like one. "It's a long story," he
finally said, and quickly added, "Would you like another coffee?"
      "Yes, please," the guy said, but that didn't turn his
attention away from the subject at hand. "A long story, you
said?"
 Jerry nodded, his heart sinking. "It's not really something
I like talking about. I hope you understand." He wasn't too sure
the man did, but he just wasn't willing to give in to the
pressure and tell this total stranger what were after all his
best kept secrets © secrets he intended to keep very well kept.
He now realized the situation was heading in the wrong
direction. Maybe he should try to have more control over the
conversation, channel it into the direction he wanted it to take.
He ought to get the man to start talking about himself. That
might work. It was worth a try, at least.
      "And what brings you here?" he asked. "Don't tell me you
picked this place for your summer holiday. What line are you in?"
      "Hell no." The man chuckled. "I was just passing through as
my car broke down. I'm a retired newspaperman, you see. Only I
haven't completely given up the trade. I'm still doing odd jobs
for a regional paper. I go around looking for stories that might
be of interest. All kinds of stuff. I don't have to do this to
make money or anything. It's just that I couldn't get journalism
out of my system entirely. It's in my blood, you see."
 Jerry nodded.
  "I suppose," the man continued, "you have to stick to what
you like and are good at. I see no reason to call it a day. If
there's something you feel you have to do, you go all the way.
Well?"
 "I guess you're right," Jerry said, fumbling with some
unwashed glasses and cups. "I guess that's true."
      There was another short pause, after which the man said, to
Jerry's utter amazement, "Somehow your face seems familiar to me.
Is there any chance we've met before?"
 "Impossible," Jerry snapped back, in a much harsher voice
than he'd wanted. You never addressed customers like this, never
ever, he told himself. He bit his lower lip, tried to regain his
self©control which he'd felt slipping out of his hands just
there. Could it be? Had the man recognized him? Maybe he'd come
across Black Fever and Jerry's own actions in particular back in
the old days, was familiar with his past, and now seeing Jerry's
face had triggered some recollections of that time. It was
terrible to be recognized after all those years, down here of all
places where he'd thought he was safe. Or maybe this guy was
simply mistaken. How could he find out without showing his rising
tension, without erupting into a fit of violence?
      "Are you all right?" the man now asked. He must have seen
his question had upset Jerry.
  "I'm fine," he managed to say, his voice remarkably even.
"But I don't think we've met before. But you may have seen my
face." An idea had popped up in his mind. "In my younger days I
used to play in a soul band. We never really hit the big time,
but we had our moments of glory. That must be where you remember
me from."
      "Oh. I see." From the way he looked at him, Jerry wasn't
sure if the guy was convinced. This fella may well know who I
am, he thought. But I think I've fooled him. And that's a good
sign, of course. If even people with good memories for faces like
newspapermen could be fooled, he should have no problems with
others. Maybe, just maybe, it was safe to go back out again.
Perhaps he could even go to that lecture without being
recognized. He could risk it, just for the hell of it, to test
the waters. Now the idea didn't seem so loathsome and ludicrous
as it had first appeared to him.
       As the guy now avoided his eyes, Jerry supposed the
conversation had ended and he edged away, pretending he had some
work to do. Why don't you leave, he thought, and go check your
car. Maybe it's been repaired by now. And if it's not, rent
another one and leave your car here at the gas station. Come back
to pick it up whenever you find the time. Everybody's doing this,
why not join in with this tradition? And your car will be safe
here, that much I can guarantee. He could barely suppress a
chuckle.
       He threw one more glance at the guy, who no longer seemed
interested in him, which was just as well. It had looked real bad
there for a moment, but now he thought the danger had been
averted. With a bit of luck this guy would go away soon. And
never show his face again.


 **Ã4

 They had closed down the place, and as Jerry went outside to
dump a load of junk into the garbage can, he heard someone call
out his name.
  "Hey, Jerry!" It was Tony's voice, the gas station
attendant. Jerry turned around and waved at him, was about to go
back inside but Tony didn't let him.
   "Did you see that, Jerry?" He pointed in the direction of
the battered old car, and added, "Must have happened last night.
Did you see or hear anything?"
 "No, I didn't." He shook his head. "Don't worry about it.
This happens to old cars, you know. They stand there for ages and
all at once they go beserk."
   "I don't think that's very funny, Jerry. Suppose its owner
gets back to pick it up. What do you think he'll say?"
 "I don't think we'll see him again. Wasn't there another guy
with car trouble today?"
       "Yeah, there was. No big deal. He left a couple of hours
ago. Do you know the guy?"
     "The hell I don't," Jerry said, and got back inside. This
wasn't something he wanted to dwell on, and least of all with
Tony. Tony was an okay guy, but he talked too much, and that
wasn't a quality Jerry appreciated very much. Most people seemed
to have trouble keeping their goddamned mouths shut. Especially
those who had nothing to say.
  On his way back inside he bumped into Susan who gently put a
hand on his shoulder, and said, "Did you think about it, Jerry?"
       "About what?" he asked. He knew very well what she was
talking about, but he needed time to prepare a reply. She knew
that as well, for she simply waited for him to come up with
something. He inhaled a few times, slowly and deeply, as they
stood looking each other in the eyes.
  "I'm considering the possibility," he said, although he had
barely reached that stage, but he couldn't bring himself to hurt
her feelings with a less positive answer.
      "I'm afraid that's not enough," she said after a short
silence. "Can't you see that you have to break out of the rut
you've locked yourself in, Jerry?"
     He stared at her, silently, pretending not to understand.
      "You know very well what I mean, Jerry. This life you're
forcing yourself to live is driving you nuts. Don't you see it?
Take these fits of violence you have. That car you demolished.
Or did you think I didn't know who did that? Did you for that
matter think nobody else in this town knows who did that? And
will you allow yourself to degenerate further into madness? Until
you're a complete nutcase? Will you let it happen?" She stared
him straight into the eyes, nostrils flaring, breathing heavily.
"If not, then do something about it. Come to terms with your
past. Get yourself a future. Leave this place behind. And there's
one more thing I'd like you to do."
    "And what could that be?"
      "I'll let you know as soon as you get back from Amanda
Sheppard's lecture."
   "That's not fair. You're trying to©©"
  "I know very well what I'm trying to do and why I'm doing
it. So you better make up your stubborn old mind, Jerry Young.
About your past, and about our future. Think, Jerry. That's
thinking, as opposed to smashing everything apart." With those
words she turned around and walked off.
        For a moment he just stood there, felt another fit rising
from deep within, tried to stay in control of himself. And failed
completely. He felt the reins slip from his fingers, sensed how
the old fury flowed through his body like a tidal wave clearing
everything in its path. He abandoned all attempts at resistance,
gave in to the pressure, let himself get carried away with the
raging storm. He whirled around, threw open the front door, ran
outside towards the garbage can and unthinkingly, as if without
any conscious involvement of his own, flung it upside down,
kicked the emptied can away, and danced on its scattered contents
in a trance©like state until the pulverized fragments were
distributed all over a wide area. Satisfied, he admired the
result of his work. As usual, he felt cleansed, purified. To his
surprise, this time the satisfaction quickly made way for a
mixture of disillusion and self©pity.
  Susan was right, he thought. This can't go on. I'll have to
do something about it before it's too late, before I'm beyond
help. You can let yourself slip downhill only for that long. Time
to go back up now. And, he had to admit, time to do some serious
thinking. This is a pivotal point in your life, pal. Better take
the right turn this time. Or one day you'll find yourself
scattered all over the place. With someone gleefully dancing on
top of you. That would be no way to sign off for ol' Jerry Young.
Don't you think he deserves a better fate? Well then, let's push
him in the right direction with a major kick in the ass. That
should do the job.
     Lost in thought, he went back inside. Susan saw him enter
from the far end, and frowned wonderingly, but his concentration
on what was going on inside his own skull was so intense that he
didn't even notice her.

Ã **Ã5

      On both sides of him the landscape sped past in a blur as he
drove back home, hitting a speed far exceeding the speed limit.
He just couldn't hold back. Putting the pedal to the metal now
came as naturally as breathing.
        He had done it. He had faced his old enemy, and it had been
an invigoratingly liberating experience. Admittedly, he had
walked out while she was still only halfway through her lecture,
but then he hadn't really come to hear what she had to say. So
she had just published her memoirs © that didn't have an awful
lot to do with his motivation for showing up here.
     He could still see her face before his mind's eye, as she
was standing behind the lectern © and the same face, but many
years younger, in the days when they were still mortal enemies.
And that phrase, he thought, had to be taken quite literally. Oh,
how he'd wanted to kill her for destroying his life. A rational
thinker would of course have argued that she was pursuing the
same goals Black Fever did, but at the time his fervor had been
too intense and too passionate to leave room for much rational
thinking. Black Fever had already become a goal in itself, and if
Amanda Sheppard had had her way their organisation would have
been rendered useless. Furthermore, Sheppard belonged to the
official political class, which meant she could by definition not
be trusted. She was on the Other Side, and was bound to play
along with the game of those in power eventually. She was an
opponent, not an ally. She had to be fought with all the means
Black Fever had at its disposal. And when push came to shove and
her reelection and imminent success made it very clear that Black
Fever was doomed, there seemed only one way left to bring this
dreaded evolution to a halt : Amanda Sheppard had to be killed.
        He had come very close to realizing that plan. Everything
had been planned meticulously, every aspect of the assassination
had been taken into account down to the slightest details. Well,
there was one factor they had failed to consider. That factor was
called Susan. She had told him they were all losing their minds
and trying to stop the inevitable, that they had lost their grip
on reality and that their determination and radicalism had
blinded them. She also said she would stop this madness out of
love for him. They had gone ahead with their plan regardless ©
but so had she.
        Her action, her sole intervention in the entire plan had
been very well©timed. She had prepared her move and had carried
it out with remarkable efficiency. She had informed a few wellªchosen newspaper reporters of the assassination attempt and
exposed it as a hoax, intended to draw full media attention to
some alleged Black Fever manifesto.
    They had found themselves in the limelight and were forced
to cancel their plans. Black Fever fell apart soon afterwards,
due to various conflicts of interest and increasingly diverging
lines of thinking. Most of the members went underground and
adopted new identities. Jerry Young fled to a small village where
he made a living as a bartender. The black girl who had turned
what might have become their brightest moment into an infamous
defeat followed him, her love for him unwaning. His only other
company was the smoldering resentment for his ruined past and
unfulfilled future. But the past could not be undone, and there
had seemed no future worth that description in store for him.
  But that now seemed to have changed.
   He had dreaded the prospect of being recognized by Amanda
Sheppard or her bodyguards or some of the journalists who would
no doubt be there. He needn't have feared. Of course, his
features had changed over the years. And apart from that, a lot
of time had passed and people's memories had dimmed. His was as
crystal clear as ever, but then his involvement had been
different and more intense than other people's. There had been
the guy at the restaurant, of course, but he must have been dead
wrong © or so he hoped.
        But if others had forgotten his past, then why couldn't he
follow their example? Didn't this mean he was free to start a new
life? It was ironical that it had taken Amanda Sheppard to open
his eyes, however unwittingly. Although actually he had to give
most credit to Susan, who had set the whole process in motion.
And, he added, who had in her turn achieved a goal cherished for
all too long and no doubt considered to be unattainable as well.
And, come to think of it, she might well realize another ambition
he knew she had harbored for a long time, although the subject
hadn't been brought up for years. The subject was marriage. In
the past he had always rejected the idea, mostly because marriage
was one of those things exemplifying the bourgeois society he was
so adamantly rebelling against.
        But times had changed, and acknowledging this by saying yes
to her as yet unvoiced question might not be a bad idea. Apart
from that, it would show Susan his feelings were sincere and his
decision a firm one. No doubt her appreciation would be quite
deep.
  As he finally drove into the small town where he'd spent and
lost so many years and which he would now soon leave behind,
another thought occurred to him. When Susan would see the damage
their car had suffered, he would be able to present her with some
more good news.
        It must have happened while he was inside the building
listening to Amanda Sheppard and taking care of wounds time
should have healed © and would have if he'd been an ordinary
human being.
   Some guy must have broken into his car, out to steal his
radio or anything that was worth taking away. Apparently the car
had contained little that had any street value, which must have
caused considerable frustration. The guy had taken it out on the
car, damaging head and tail lights, the rearview mirrors and
windscreen wipers and leaving a network of scratches all over. As
Jerry had come back outside he had stopped dead in his tracks as
he'd noticed the damage, and felt the anger rise within him.
Usually the fury rose until it reached critical mass and exploded
into a fit of violence, but this time, to his own utter
amazement, he managed to fight it back down, until it wasn't more
than a dull throbbing in the back of his mind he could easily
ignore. It was the first time he had achieved this level of selfªcontrol in a long, long time. And deep inside he could sense this
had not been an isolated incident, some exceptional moment in his
life that would never manifest itself again. He felt this was
something permanent, a sign that he was changing, a harbinger
that bode well for his future. He could now feel in his bones
that better times were ahead. It would be up to him to follow up
this feeling, leave the past for what it was and start building a
new future. As a social worker? As a singer in a soul band,
venting his ang




SKIN DRAGON

by Frank Roger


1

    "A dragon? Why did you pick a dragon?"
 My friend Jim Julian flashed me a bright smile. Or perhaps I
should say my friend Screaming Jay Jay, as this was how he would
prefer to be known, now that his career as a rock singer finally
seemed to be on the verge of takeoff.
  "I just liked it, I suppose."
  "You suppose?"
 "Well, to be quite honest about it, I remember only vaguely
what happened that night. We had just signed on the dotted line
and felt like celebrating and ended up too drunk to completely
realize what we were doing. We felt the band was now ready for
the big time, what with this major record company deal and all.
So we ended up in this tattoo parlor, and I had this cute dragon
here tattooed on my arm. Don't you like it?"
   I studied the dragon tattoo one more time : a multi©colored
rendition of a many©legged creature, equipped with a set of
menacing claws, twirling tongue, and maliciously flickering eyes.
It was a fine piece of craftsmanship, with definite artistic
merits, but...
 "Well," I said, "it's definitely got something, but I must
admit I'm not really into that sort of thing."
       Jim chuckled, and replied, "I know what your sorta thing is,
Stan. And it's very different from my sorta thing."
    "True enough," I admitted. Jim rolled his shirt sleeve back
down, removing the dragon tattoo from sight. We talked some more
about how things were shaping up for him, and about my own
prospects, and parted with a promise to meet again sometime soon.
      Jim and I had known each other ever since our early school
days. We used to spend an awful lot of time together, literally
grew up together, and although as time went by we had started to
drift apart both professionally and socially, we had remained in
touch, all differences in career and social life notwithstanding.
Jim had developed an active interest in music early on, had
learned how to play various instruments, had taken up singing and
eventually joined a local band as guitarist and lead vocalist. I
on the other hand concentrated more and more on my studies, and
ended up majoring in English, hoping to be offered one day a
teaching assignment in a private school and eventually perhaps
even a college. We kept in touch over the years, meeting at
regular intervals, and stayed friends however much our paths were
diverging. Jim joined and left a number of no©hope bands until he
decided to take his fate into his own hands and formed his own
band, his first serious project. After I graduated, I took up
various jobs to pay the bills, mostly desk jobs where I shuffled
paperwork around. I could support myself but wasn't exactly
realizing my ambitions. Then things suddenly picked up speed...
for both of us.
        Jim's band Fast Buck met with growing success in the club
circuit, recorded a few demos and had now landed a contract with
a major record company. Apparently he had high hopes this would
be the start of something big, and of course I wished him all the
best. I myself had gradually worked my way up through a series of
more interesting jobs, and had recently been offered a temporary
assignment as a substitute teacher © not quite my ultimate goal,
but at least I was inching closer to the realization of my
ambitions. Furthermore I would be getting married soon. My future
had rarely ever looked so promising. It was especially pleasing
for me to see both of us doing so well in our respective careers.
I was looking forward to my next meeting with Jim (also known as
Screaming Jay Jay, lead vocals and rhythm guitar with rising
stars Fast Buck) and the mutual exchange of good news and bright
prospects.
     So the next time I met Jim I wasn't surprised to find
ebullient enthusiasm on both sides. We met, as usual, in the Rock
Candy Bar, a place where he felt a lot more at ease than I did,
which explained why he tended to be there long before I turned
up. This time was no exception. We barely found the time to say
hello : I was itching too much to break the news to him that
Sheila and I would be getting married soon. He was genuinely
thrilled at the news, and asked me to introduce him to her as
soon as possible.
      "Are you sure that's a wise thing to do?" I replied.
   "You're absolutely right," he admitted. "If she finds out
you have friends like me, she may well change her mind."
       "I'm not willing to take that risk, Jim," I said, slapping
him on the shoulder. "I'm afraid this means you'll never meet her
in person."
    "Wait!" he exclaimed. "An idea just struck me. How about
this elegant solution to our problem : I marry Sheila, there's no
more need for painful introductions and we're all happy."
   "A brilliant idea," I said. "Unfortunately, it's too late by
now to rearrange the marriage."
        "Even if it concerns a minor detail, such as a simple change
of bridegroom?"
        "Afraid so, Jim. You fail to see the amount of paperwork
involved, the bureaucratic aspects of a marriage, the importance
of the administrative dimension of life."
      "I understand," he said, nodding with mock©resignation.
"Your side wins. I should have known." We exchanged some more
silly nonsense, another habit of ours we faithfully stuck to,
before we finally managed to move on to news of a more serious
nature. I talked about my teaching assignment, about my
financial situation which was growing better all the time, about
the interesting times that seemed to lie ahead of me. Jim then
talked about his own career and his band. Apparently they had
recently signed a management deal, and would soon be doing a
tour playing small theaters instead of the tiny clubs they had
been limited to until recently. He talked at some length about
the current state of affairs in the music business.
    "Image," he said at one point, "is terribly important these
days. It's become a vital factor. It can make or break an artist.
I'm not saying it's an entirely good thing, but being imageªconscious can determine whether you'll be a success or not in
this field."
   "Not just in your field," I countered. "I think what you
just pointed out is true for about every area of social life.
Image is important whatever your line of work happens to be.
Don't you for a minute think it's of no importance in my field.
Try to picture me with a dragon tattoo in full sight, considering
my position and ambitions. It wouldn't exactly work in my favor,
to put it mildly. The people who employ me aren't looking for
your typical rock 'n roller. Shaggy©haired, tattoo©covered types
wearing ripped jeans and garish T©shirts aren't high on their
list, for one reason or other."
        "You mean this beauty would put them off?" he said, rolling
up his sleeve to uncover the tattoo on his upper arm. I chuckled
as I looked at the dragon, but even as I did the thought occurred
to me that it somehow looked different from the way I remembered
it. I couldn't quite describe in what way it was different, but I
had a distinct feeling that this was not exactly the same tattoo
I had seen the previous time.
  "Anything wrong?" he asked, as he noticed my puzzled stare.
"Does it frighten you?"
        "No, of course not, but..." I didn't quite know how to put
it.
    "But what?"
    I shook my head, groping for words. "I seem to remember it
as... somehow different. Smaller, less detail." He looked me in
the eyes, expressionlessly.
    "Did you have it redone, or changed? Added to? I didn't
think such a thing was possible. Or maybe my recollections are
wrong." I didn't believe that last bit myself, but I had to say
something sensible.
    I shifted my gaze back to the tattoo, but Jim quickly rolled
his shirt sleeve back down. "You know very well there's nothing
wrong with the tattoo, Stan. It's exactly the way it has always
been. You're just imagining things. I know you're not into this
sort of thing, but that's no reason to make fun of it in such a
cheap way."
    "I suppose you're right, Jim. Sorry for bringing this up."
Jim had reacted unnaturally vehemently, trying very hard to sound
offended, as if I had brought up vicious rumors that had been
plagueing him for years and years. I didn't understand the reason
behind this sensitivity © he had never shown any such reactions
in the past. Maybe, I thought afterwards, it was all my fault. I
shouldn't have driven home my point so forcefully that I couldn't
allow myself such follies as exotic tattoos. I should have
restrained myself, should have had more respect for his
ambitions and his efforts to realize them instead of changing the
subject to my own endeavors. Jim and I were very different
individuals, and we were apparently still drifting further apart
all the time, yet it was very much my intention to remain
friends. I promised myself to be more careful next time around,
to be more the attentive listener rather than the self©centered
talker. For the rest of the time we exchanged some news of
general interest, careful not to touch upon the subject of image
and career, and parted company in fairly good spirits. No harm
had been done. There were, to my relief, no hard feelings. We
would meet again, in a few weeks or so, probably once again at
the Rock Candy Bar. Just before he left Jim told me he would be
looking forward to this next occasion © and I was genuinely
convinced he meant it. My own feelings were no different.




 **Ã2

        It took us longer than usual to get together again, but then
both of us had a lot on our mind. I had to invest large amounts
of time and energy into my teaching assignment, but I felt it was
all well worth it. I viewed this job as a major stepping stone
towards the achievement of my ultimate ambition. I was gaining
important experience, and I had the chance to meet people who
might be able to help me along, or at least get me in touch with
other people who had considerable connections. Apart from that
there were the preparations of our marriage, and we had also
decided to move. Sheila and I felt we could no longer stay in the
small apartment we were sharing at the moment. We had agreed to
move to a better neighborhood, and to pick a place that would be
big enough for both of us and one or two kids. Yes, that was
indeed another step for which we felt the time had come. What
with my current better paying job and even brighter prospects
ahead, it seemed unnecessary to wait much longer.
      I didn't hear from Jim, but then he'd told me would be doing
a tour, so I gathered that was why he couldn't get in touch with
me. There was no reason at all for concern. Usually he was the
one who called to suggest a place and time to meet.
    A few weeks later than I had expected the phone call came.
The Rock Candy Bar, next Friday, the usual time. I was glad to
hear from my long©time friend, and was looking forward to see
him.
   As I swung open the door, I saw Jim, perched on a barstool,
waving at me and ordering two beers.
   "How are you, Stan?" he asked, and handed me one of the
beers with a wide grin on his face.
   "Couldn't be better," I replied, and took a refreshing gulp.
"Let me fill you in." I told him how much progress I had been
making these last few weeks, and how nicely things appeared to be
shaping up. I went into some detail as I described our plans
about marriage, children and our new house, not to mention my
career. The smile remained on his face as I spoke. When I had
finished at last I said, "And how are you doing? Didn't you
mention a tour last time around? How did it work out?"
 "We did a tour all right," he replied, "and we were fairly
successful. There's even a chance of a bigger tour later in the
year to promote our first album."
      "You mean..."
  "We're recording it right now. That's how I managed to find
some time to see you. We don't have to be in the studio all the
time together. I've done my guitar parts, now the other guys are
doing their parts, and we won't begin the vocals until another
week or so."
   "So you have some time off."
   "I go to the studio every now and then, to see how things
are going. But my presence isn't really required for the time
being. We're on schedule, so there's no reason to worry. Well, at
least not about that." The smile disappeared from his face the
moment he said those last words. He must have noticed that
himself, for he forced the smile back again, but it no longer
looked convincing.
     "Is anything wrong?" I asked.
  He licked his lips, avoided my eyes for an instant, ran a
hand through his long hair, obviously looking for the right words
to tackle this topic. "You might say that," he finally said, eyes
downcast.
      "Anything I can help you with?" I asked. There was an uneasy
silence for a while, then he seemed to have found the right
words, and he looked me straight into the eyes again.
  "Remember last time," he began, "when I showed you my dragon
tattoo? You remarked it was different from the first time you had
seen it."
      "I think I recall something along those lines," I offered as
cautiously as possible, careful not to hurt his feelings once
again.
 "Well, you were right, although at the time I denied it. At
the time it was something I'd chosen to ignore, hoping it would
stop if I didn't believe it myself. I was dead wrong, of course.
It didn't stop, and it still shows no signs of slowing down."
  "It?" I asked, still not quite grasping what he was talking
about.
 "I'll show you," he said, and rolled up his shirt sleeve.
With rising amazement I stared at his arm. The dragon tattoo now
covered almost his entire arm, and as Jim unbuttoned his shirt I
could see it had spread across part of his chest too. I had to
admit it was a true artist's job : the dragon's legs tapered into
tentacle©like endings which swirled graciously around Jim's lower
arms. It had a quite fascinating color pattern, jet black
alternating with dark red and a rich, deep green.
      "Quite impressive," I said, in as neutral a tone as I could
muster.
        "You don't understand, do you? Or maybe you don't want to.
Well all right, let me put it clearly then : I didn't go back to
that tattoo parlor to have some additional work done or anything.
Not now, and not last time around. This thing here expands on
its own accord. It grows. It literally gets bigger, covers more
skin surface as it goes along."
        I nodded, not knowing if Jim was serious or delivering some
dead©pan humor, although that wasn't really his style. He must
have seen the expression of puzzlement on my face, for he felt it
necessary to explain.
  "I can see you don't believe me, huh? Well, you can hardly
deny that this thing here is considerably bigger than the
previous time we met. I'm not sure what it is and how this will
end, but for now I can live with it. In this band situation I'm
in it's a nice gimmick. You tend to be in the limelight, pictures
of me appear in magazines and people see me with a different
tattoo every time and think it's cool. It focuses the attention
on me, and me being the frontman that has a positive effect on
the band. I told you how important image is in this field."
    "I can see that," I said.
      "Still, I wonder where it will end. And how it began in the
first place. I have a theory, though."
 "Tell me."
     "That night, a few months ago, when we went into that tattoo
parlor, we were quite drunk. A bit too drunk for our own good, I
must admit. The guy who ran the parlor was Chinese or Korean or
something like that, and as he was busy with my buddies I had
made a series of nasty remarks that were none too flattering for
people of Asian origin. Of course these weren't meant as
offensive, but me being drunk out of my wits I must have really
rubbed it in and the man must have felt insulted. So when the
time came to use the needles on me, he dealt me this raw deal,
this ever©expanding dragon tattoo as a sort of revenge."
       "That's completely ridiculous, Jim. And you know it."
  "Do you have a better explanation?"
    "I don't. But for all I know this is some elaborate
practical joke of yours. Whatever it is, whatever you did,
whatever that man did, whatever it is you're trying to pull off
here, please don't treat me like a fool, Jim. I can take a joke,
but I don't think this is a particularly good one."
    "I'm not joking, Stan. I wish I was. The growth is very much
there. There's no denying it. You better accept it for what it
is."
   After a silence that seemed to drag on for ages, I suggested
orizon 




A LETTER FROM VIETNAM

by Frank Roger



  I'm afraid I've got some pretty bad news, but believe me,
honey, it wasn't my fault. It was Bill who blew it, but we both
got fired. Yeah, you heard that alright : I lost my job. That's
why you won't find any money enclosed this time. I'm really
terribly sorry. I hate myself for everything that's happened,
although I'm not to blame. It was Bill. I'll explain it all to
you.
   But let me assure you first that I'm seriously looking for a
new job. I'll be sending some money as soon as possible. It's
only a matter of days before I find another job. At least that's
what I hope. Are you and little Pete and Cindy okay? I hope
you'll be doing fine, although I realize it's gonna be difficult
with little or no money coming from me for a while. Tell the kids
they can count on their dad. Tell them I'll be making some dough
again real soon, and will send it back home.
   But let me explain what went wrong. It happened just before
we did the ambush. Did I tell you about the ambush part? I'm sure
you know what I'm talking about, but anyhow, we're doing the old
everyday "Heroic History War Park" (God, how I hate that name)
routine and at one point I see my friend Bill yawning and closing
his eyes as if he's about to fall asleep and naturally this
worries me, so I whisper at him, "You tired, Bill? You okay? Come
on, man, wake up."
  And he looks at me in this weird way, squinting against the
harsh sunlight beating down on us, sweat dripping from his
forehead in this goddamned humid heat (this is Vietnam, remember,
high summer, around noon, the kind of weather we'll never get
used to) and he says, "Yeah, I'm tired, Rick, I'm sick and tired
of this game." I stare back at him, not saying a word, hoping
good old Bill will keep his shit together, but fearing that he
won't. He's been acting weird lately, and I can feel the bad
vibrations. Then he goes on in a voice that's way too loud, and
my heart sinks as I hear him say, "I'm sick and tired of dying in
that goddamned ambush every day, Rick. It hurts, man, it hurts
real bad," and he grabs my arm, and then he shouts at me as if
I'm a hundred yards away or something, "You know what'll happen
to us in a few minutes, my friend?" and I turn pale, wondering
what's gotten into him.
        I try to calm him back down and tell him to lower his voice
and turn his attention back to the job at hand, but he doesn't
even seem to hear me and he rambles on, "We'll be dead in a
minute, Rick. Those goddamned Vietcong forces will kill us in an
ambush. We're gonna die. And tomorrow we'll be doing exactly the
same thing. And the day after tomorrow. And so on, day after
day. For God knows how long. The rest of our shitty lives maybe.
As long as this Park's around, at least." Bill then shifts his
gaze away from me and notices the bunch of tourists watching us
and the whole spectacle, and the sight of all these guys with
their expensive cameras and video equipment must have been the
final straw, for now he loses his mind completely.
     Bill rises to his feet and lets out this ear©piercing
war©cry, and he storms in the direction of the crowd of
spectators and fires at them, yelling like a madman, firing and
firing again. Of course he's firing blanks, and they know that
and nobody's harmed or anything but they don't like this show
anyway, this isn't what they paid to see and it looks as if
they're about to panic. So I make a run towards Bill and grab him
by his elbow and I try to talk some reason into him. I say, "Have
you lost your mind, Bill? What the hell do you think you're
doing? You think this is gonna help us, you goddamned fool?" but
he's just not listening, he keeps killing off these tourists, so
to speak (no doubt this is how he views this senseless action of
his), and he shouts insults at them, really crude stuff that I
won't repeat here, but believe me, honey, it was crude even to
Bill's standards.
      And then I see this Nguyen Thi guy coming towards us, one of
the Park supervisors, who must have found out something's going
wrong, and he has the Park closed down for "technical reasons",
and the shocked tourists are told they'll get a full refund and
they're showered with apologies from Park officials, and then at
one point mister Nguyen Thi looks Bill and me in the eyes and
when I notice this really scalding hot look of his I can see the
dark clouds gathering.
 Some ten minutes later we find ourselves both in Nguyen
Thi's office. We're wearing our own clothes. When we were asked
to turn in our uniforms and weapons I had the feeling we'd never
see those things again. So there we are, facing Nguyen Thi, and
at first he simply stares at us in silence, as if he's still
looking for the right words. I can see he's furious, but when he
finally speaks Nguyen Thi uses a deceptively calm and controlled
tone of voice.
       "I fail to understand you," he says. "You are so ungrateful.
You people don't deserve the treatment we're offering you. Maybe
this incident should force us into reconsidering our policy of
casting true American citizens as US soldiers in our theme parks.
I wonder if you fully grasp why we don't simply use our own local
talent for these roles in our parks. Of course there are several
reasons. Firstly, we strive to achieve an authentic feel of the
war scenes in our parks. Casting true Americans as US soldiers
was considered an obvious choice. And as so many Americans these
days are looking for employment in South©East Asia and other
regions with a flourishing economy, there were enough candidates
to select from. As we tend to think of ourselves as highly
reputable employers, we adopted this policy of extending a
helping hand as a gesture of goodwill. Our policy was generally
applauded and gratefully accepted by the vast number of American
citizens desperately looking for employment in foreign countries,
eager to leave behind their ruined economy and poverty©stricken
lives without hope. So we granted them labor permits and allowed
them to send money to their families back home. We rejoiced in
the knowledge that we thus contributed to these workers being
able to support their wives and children."
     Nguyen Thi pauses dramatically, inhales deeply and continues
his little speech. Bill and me keep our goddamned mouths shut ©
too bad Bill didn't think about that earlier today.
    "And in return, we receive insults. Ingratitude. Contempt.
We are appalled. We are shocked to the marrow of our bones. Our
visitors pay hard©earned money to enter our parks and enjoy
thrilling recreations of our glorious past, gripping battle
scenes of our undaunted army conquering the foreign aggressors.
They relive highlights of our history, staged with fitting
grandeur and painstakingly achieved verisimilitude."
   Then Nguyen Thi focusses on Bill and his voice grows louder.
   "And then some individuals deem it necessary to ridicule
our past and insult our visitors and cause damage that will take
a long time and enormous effort to repair. You do not realize how
serious this offence of yours is. You cannot fathom how deep in
our hearts the pain was felt. You cannot foresee how long it
will take for the scars to heal. You deserve a punishment far
worse than the one you are getting. You are fired. Both of you.
You cannot understand how merciful we are with you." He pauses
again, closes his eyes for an instant, then concludes with a few
words spit out as an order, "You are dismissed," and he turns
away his eyes as if he never wants to see us again. Come to think
of it, he probably doesn't.
    So we get out of there, feeling depressed and all that. No
job, no money. Bill finally realizes what he's done to both of
us.
    I tell him to get lost, I don't wanna see him anymore, he's
gotten me in enough trouble as it is and we part company in mean
spirits. So that's it, honey. Frankly, I don't think I'll find a
job with some other tourist industry©related company. No doubt
I've been blacklisted. These guys all work together. They don't
kick you out the door ; they make you crawl out the door
yourself.
      But don't give up all hope, honey. There's other jobs around
over here. It's not always perfectly legal stuff, so there's some
danger involved, but then again there's also a fair amount of
dough involved. I'll be careful, I won't take stupid risks, but
hey, there's stomachs that need to be filled, and I'll see to it
that my kids have everything they need. And this time I'll make
sure no one like Bill messes it up for me. If they're depressed
that's their problem. If they're frustrated because they have to
swallow their pride and look for work far from home, and feel
sorry for themselves and think this whole situation hurts their
self©esteem, then they should do something about it instead of
spoiling it for everyone. It's not my fault the economy back home
is a shambles.
 It's gotten to the point where these vast numbers of "cheap
American labor forces" all feel so terribly out of touch with
their new environment that they started looking for ways to beat
this sense of encroaching wistfulness and loss of identity. There
seem to be more and more of them every day, and they all have
families back home. They have a work permit strictly for
themselves, just like me. And they're all lonely and homesick and
pissed off.
    So this thriving black market has been growing into
existence, catering to people who're desperate for all sorts of
typically American stuff not officially available here. You see
people walking down the street here wearing baseball mitts and a
bat. Or they're sporting Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck patches
sewn onto their clothes, or in radical cases even tattooed onto
their skin. They sip from Budweiser cans (cheap imitations as the
genuine stuff is no longer around), and you can see more and more
"dollar©caps" and "dollar©hats" and other weird contraptions made
out of crudely glued©together dollar bills, what with all this
money (and especially the denominations smaller than 5,000
dollars) that's become worthless due to the gallopping inflation
back home. These guys will do literally anything to make them
feel more truly American.
      More and more stuff is being smuggled into the Far East or
produced locally somehow and sold here on street corners. Guess
this line of work might be what I'm looking for. As it's a far
cry from official business, my being blacklisted won't matter. I
think I stand a decent chance to make it out there. I'll be
making money again soon. And will be sending some.
     Tell Pete and Cindy not to worry. They'll have something to
eat real soon. Just give me some time, honey.
  Love,
  Rick.





A PERFECT DAY FOR A WALK

by Frank Roger



       "Would you care for another cup of tea?" Patricia looked her
mother in the eyes, frowning with concern, her hands clasped
tightly together.
      Hovering somewhere between slumber and waking up, the old
woman stared back at her, a gaze blank with incomprehension. She
remained silent, and merely blinked a few times.
       "Would you like another cup of tea?" Patricia tried again.
Now a glimmering of understanding seemed to dawn in the old,
grayish©blue eyes. "Ricia, darling," her mother finally said, her
voice a hoarse croaking sound, as if she hadn't used it in years
and experienced some difficulties in getting it to work again.
"Tea, you said? Oh, I don't know. I suppose I could use some."
She struggled into a more upright position, and after a moment's
thought she said, "On the other hand, perhaps I'd rather not.
Thank you, darling." She turned her head, looked out the window,
as if studying what she saw there with deep concentration, and
then she added, "I'd rather take a stroll in the garden. It's a
perfect day for a walk, darling. Just take a look outside."
    Patricia sighed with resignation, and helped her mother out
of the comfortable chair she spent most of her days in. "I'll
manage nicely on my own," the old woman protested. "I seem to be
in good shape today. And I'm sure this little walk will only make
me feel better still."
      "Be careful," Patricia told her mother as she left the house
and shuffled slowly but with unmistakable determination down the
garden path. "Take a rest when you feel you're getting tired. And
don't stay out too long."
      "I'll be all right," her mother assured her. "Don't you
worry."
        Patricia turned around as she heard her husband enter the
room. "Geoff, she's gone out again. I hope everything will work
out all right." Geoff came up to her and gently put his arm
around her shoulders. "She again said it's a perfect day for a
walk in the garden," she added, her voice edged with despair.
  Geoff shook his head. "Well, we both know how she is."
 "I suppose we'll simply have to wait until she gets back
inside. What else can we do?" She leaned on Geoff's strong body,
closed her eyes for a few moments. Her mother had become such a
burden these last few years. They had considered the possibility
of a home for aged persons, but that had proved to be beyond
their means, and mother didn't exactly fancy the idea either.
("Nobody will chase me from my own house!") Especially with
their son being unemployed and their daughter still going to
college, the financial consequences were not to be taken lightly.
Still, her mother's deteriorating condition didn't make her and
Geoff's life any easier. They could only hope she wouldn't make
herself impossible as time went on.
    Presently mother came trudging back, beaming with joy. She
looked at her daughter and son©in©law, smiled happily, and said,
"How absolutely wonderful! I'm enthralled!" She lowered herself
into her comfortable chair, leaned back and carefully stretched
her legs. "The leaves rustling in the wind," she said dreamily,
"birds chirping, the sunlight finding its way down between the
foliage, the sound of children playing and cheering merrily
nearby, it all makes for such a peaceful neighborhood. It makes
me feel so happy. Why don't both of you go and stroll around as
well? It's a perfect day for a walk, believe me." Her breathing
slowed down, a telltale sign that she was about to doze off
again.
 Patricia locked eyes with Geoff, then cast a glance at the
bleak expanse of gray where they had just seen the old woman
stumble around. There hadn't been any trees or flowers for over
a decade now. Even the grass had withered and made room for dirt
and sand and rubble, matching colors with the unvariably overcast
sky. Every now and then army airplanes flew by overhead, their
thundering roar shattering the ghastly quietness and making the
houses tremble on their foundations. The effect of widespread
pollution, toxic waste dumps, and a few major environmental
catastrophes, combined with the civil war and its generous use of
defoliants and various chemical and bacteriological weapons had
totally escaped her mother.
    "Birds," Geoff murmured. "Children playing. Sunlight."
 "You know she still lives in the past," Patricia said. "She
still sees things as they were in the good old days. That's what
keeps her going, what keeps her from going mad."
       "I suppose you're right," Geoff said. "And I wonder what
will keep us from going mad."





WOODSTOCK 3

by Frank Roger



    It may seem highly ironical that some of the most striking
images and the most vivid memories I have from Woodstock 3, the
over©hyped mega©bash celebrating the original Woodstock festival
of exactly half a century ago, were not provided by the musicians
and bands performing on stage, but it's typical for the
atmosphere of the event.
       One such striking image was my first glimpse of the festival
area as I was flown in by helicopter along with a handful of
fellow journalists to our privileged backstage lounge. Imagine a
vast expanse of human bodies, afloat on a thick layer of mud,
gathered here for the musical event of the early twenty©second
century. There had to be hundreds of thousands of people, and
their ranks were still swelling constantly as we gazed across
this ocean of tightly packed human beings. Not unlike a regular
ocean, this one had its currents and eddies as people were
winding their way towards the stage or towards the dealer's
tables and facilities along the sides or at the back. Upon our
arrival we were told the organizing committee had chosen to
remove all grass and dirt from the festival site and replace it
with mud, while fresh truckloads of mud were to be added all
through the day. "Mud," a committee spokesman had it, "has become
a true Woodstock tradition, and we have decided to make it a
highly prominent element of this third edition of the festival."
 The organizing committee had gone to great pains in creating
an atmosphere that would at once recall the glorious days of
Woodstock 1 (and to a lesser extent 1994's rather lacklustre
Woodstock 2) and set new standards for future festivals and
similar celebrations. For instance, random amounts of drugs of
several types were added to all the food and beverages sold on
the festival site, so that the true spirit of the late sixties
would be rekindled within the fans' minds. Chemicals were also
pumped in the air blowing across the festival area, to avoid that
people who had brought their own food and drinks would be
excluded from the mind©expanding experience.
   As the festival proceeded and the drugs were beginning to
take effect, the committee had a textile©pulverizing product and
aphrodisiacs sprayed over the gathered masses, so that the
ideals of free love and nudism would be put into practice again
on a wide scale. The sight of the quivering whirlpool of mud and
sex into which the festival site found itself transformed is
totally unforgettable: a million or more mud©covered, naked
bodies, choosing partners randomly in a drug©induced daze, all
reason and logical thinking thrown to the winds, frantically
making love until exhaustion caused them to drop limply into the
mud and form a bed of flesh on top of which other pairs could
begin to copulate as if possessed.
     But of course we shouldn't forget there was also music being
offered. Despite my earlier observations, Woodstock 3 was first
and foremost a musical event. I won't bother you with a detailed
act©by©act review of the festival, but will limit myself to the
day's highlights, which incidentally went sadly unnoticed by the
crowd that was firmly committed to activities of a somewhat less
artistic nature.
       One band that fully merits to be mentioned is Metallica, who
had reformed especially for the occasion. They hadn't been on a
stage together in twenty years, following their split after
singer James Hetfield's decision to go solo as a country©andªwestern artist and founder member Lars Ulrich's opting for a
business career as manager of the National Bank of Denmark he had
purchased with his amassed royalties. The frightened looks on
their faces as they grew aware of the sheer volume and energy
they were producing typified their entire performance, even
though they only played slowed©down and mellow versions of their
"speed" hits of bygone days. Sadly, rheumatoid arthritis
prevented the revival of the band's famous practice of
"headbanging". Metallica's set was rather short... mercifully so
for the band's four musicians, who looked as though they could
use another twenty years of rest as they quit the stage.
       A special all©star line©up had been assembled consisting of
the handful of survivors of the very first Woodstock festival:
alternating lead vocalists Joe Cocker and Roger Daltrey, guitar
player Carlos Santana, and a rhythm section composed of Ten
Years After's bassist and Creedence Clearwater Revival's drummer.
Despite their advanced age (which forced them to remain seated
all through their concert), all five of them are still active
today and chose to present an anthology of their recent work
rather than harking back to their youthful days. I must admit I
was only mildly impressed with their selection of radio jingles
and commercials, which may work well in the medium they were
created for, but failed to spark off any enthusiasm among the
journalists (I'm not even mentioning the audience!).
    Top©of©the©bill was a nice piece of state©of©the©art
technology: a computer simulation of Jimi Hendrix as he would now
look if he were still alive, a larger than life hologram,
prowling the stage and playing adroitly rearranged and modernized
versions of the man's biggest hits, most notably his feedbackªwarped "Star©Spangled Banner". The link between the first and the
current Woodstock was forged in a highly poetic way, as towards
the end of its last song the Hendrix©hologram turned into a mudªstatue, madly copulating with his guitar. As it reached orgasm,
the hologram exploded into a shower of scintillating falling
stars descending upon the audience and branding bare, exposed
skin with their marks. This thirty©minute extravaganza alone was
worth the price of admission.
  In honor of yet another Woodstock©tradition, the organizing
committee had arranged statewide roadblocks and had accidents
staged in strategic places, causing traffic jams of awesome
proportions as the festival crowd tried to go home after the
proceedings had been wrapped up. The traffic jams lasted for
several days, and coupled with an uninterrupted torrential
downpour (artificially induced, as persistent rumours had it) led
to the entire states of New York and New Jersey being declared
Disaster Area. It remains unclear how many people perished during
the festival and its aftermath, but rough estimates seem to agree
on an unspecified (but, to quote an official spokesman, not
"alarmingly high") five©digit number.
  In a press conference afterwards the organizing committee
told that preparations for Woodstock 4 were already underway, a
"truly spectacular celebration compared to which the festival's
third edition would seem no more than a paltry rehearsal. Believe
me, Woodstock 4 will be remembered as if it were World War IV."
        Let's just hope that enough people survive it so that
there's a chance we'll have a Woodstock 5 at some point...





THE UNSPEAKABLE ACT

by Frank Roger


     It had been another hectic day at the office, and Rick knew
very well that his work wasn't over yet. If he went about his
business quickly and efficiently, he might still have a chance to
go to bed early and get a decent night's sleep. He certainly
could use it.
  As he got home he tossed his coat onto the couch and kissed
his wife on the cheek.
 "Good evening," the voice©programme of his fully
computerized house said. Meanwhile one of its autonomous helpingªhand©units was already on its way to pick up his coat and put it
in his wardrobe.
       "You look tired," Linda said. "Any ideas for dinner?"
  "What about Italian? I feel like Italian tonight."
     "I'll have the kitchen prepare something."
     "Fine. In the meantime I'll get the rest of my work done.
I'm supposed to have this special report ready by tomorrow
morning."
      While Linda gave the kitchen detailed instructions about
dinner, Rick read out a stream of random thoughts and ideas about
his project to his computer, who would eventually edit all the
material and produce an elegant, smoothly readable piece. While
talking he glanced at the wide©screen at the far side of the
room, where news flashes were being shown in between artsy
commercials and music videos.
      While preparing his final conclusions, he heard Linda ask
the computer if there weren't any messages on their answering
machine. The computer lowered the volume of the TV and let the
tape roll. There were indeed a few messages, but none of any
importance to him. He resumed his work, and when the computer
finally had all the data it needed he told it to start editing
and writing. He would now have to wait for the first draft to be
finished. He would then hand it back with suggestions for a
revision until he was completely satisfied with the text. Then he
and the computer would discuss layout and assorted matters, and
within the hour he should have the galleys of the final draft to
correct. By bedtime the computer should be ready to start the
printing work while he was sleeping. On awakening tomorrow
morning he expected to find the 150 copies ordered of the
brochure with his report and all the statistical data pertaining
to his special project. Right now he had some time on his hands
to relax.
      "Dinner will be ready in a few minutes," Linda informed him.
   "Fine," he said. "By the way, where's Ian?"
    "Haven't seen him in a while. Where's Ian?" she asked in her
turn, the question being directed to the computer this time.
   "He's in his room," the voice©programme said. "I can put him
on the screen for you."
        "Please do." The commercials were abruptly replaced by a
view from their son's room.
    "Rick, I think you'd better come and take a close look,"
Linda said in an even tone, but he had already noticed what had
caught his wife's attention and caused her concern. They stared
into each other's eyes for a moment, incomprehending, unable to
say a word. After an uneasy silence, he told her, "We'd better go
up and talk to him." She nodded and followed him up the stairs,
silently.



    "So what's this supposed to mean, boy?" He looked his son
into the eye, demanding a full explanation. Ian cast down his
gaze, realizing his parents were none too happy with what they
had caught him at.
     "A creative project," he mumbled, faintly. "For school."
       "I see. And what exactly were you expected to do?"
     "We were supposed to make a machine. Something mechanical.
Something that..." His voice trailed off. It was clear that he
didn't really want to pursue this line of thinking. Rick decided
to help him.
   "You were asked to come up with a construction of your own,
right? You were supposed to use your designing and manufacturing
software to create a sort of machine or creative project or
however they put it. And, my dear friend, what did you come up
with?"
 Ian remained silent, numbed with shame and embarrassment.
      "In other words," Rick pressed on, "what is this?" He
pointed at the bizarre object they had seen their son tinkering
with a few minutes ago.
        "It's a horse," Ian said.
      "A horse," Rick said as calmly as possible. "I see." The soªcalled
horse was made of pieces of wood and sticks whick had been
stuck together with Scotch tape. He had no idea where the boy had
dug up this material. It certainly couldn't have been supplied by
the computer system. Could it perhaps be trash the boy had picked
up on the street? The very thought made him cringe.
    "I didn't feel like using my computer," Ian now said, at
last finding the courage to supply a full explanation. "I wanted
to use my hands. I felt like making something different and do it
with my hands. I wanted to make an animal. It felt like the thing
to do. You see, dad, I was getting real tired of©©"
    "That's enough, Ian. Go to bed now. We'll talk about this
tomorrow."
     They left the room, and went back down the stairs. Linda had
taken the so©called horse along, and looked at it with suspicion,
as though it was contaminated.
 "We'll have to talk to him," he told Linda as they were at
last having dinner. "The boy has a serious problem here. I'm sure
it's not yet too late and it can still be dealt with. We should
be able to help him get rid of this unhealthy attitude of his.
And we better make sure we destroy this horrible thing he's made.
Before anyone finds out about it. Suppose the neighbours would
see it. An animal, of all things. Just imagine, darling."
      Linda winced at the very idea. They ate in silence,
preferring to avoid this touchy subject for the rest of the
evening.









