EYECATCHER

by Frank Roger


1

     All at once the burning man vanished, as if he had never
been there. As a matter of fact that was probably very much the
case, Cynthia thought. She let her gaze roam about the glimmering
cityscape. Most of it didn't seem real. Much of it wasn't real.
None of it felt real.
  All around her the city sprawled. It extended to the horizon
and beyond, a vast, amorphous expanse of concrete and stone and
metal. It was teeming with life, although at times it looked
deceivingly empty and quiet. As the gigantic megalopolis grew, it
extended its fingers and pushed its limits further and further,
greedily gobbling up other cities and incorporating them within
its boundaries. After some time it proved no longer useful to
refer to them as mere cities. They were now labeled Urban Areas,
as opposed to Desert Areas and Woodland Areas. As more and more
people fled the south and flocked towards the Urban Areas, their
growth continued unabated.
     Not all was well in the Urban Areas, though. Only the happy
few lived in the rich City Center. Around it was a series of
concentric rings. In the one closest to the Center, the "rim
area", there was still a semblance of wealth and a spark of hope.
Further down things grew bleaker and poorer. The inhabitants of
these slums had dubbed their part of town Nowhere City, probably
because it bore a striking resemblance to the slums around all
other Urban Areas. Nowhere City could be anywhere. As long as you
weren't in the city center, it didn't make a difference in which
particular Nowhere City you happened to be. They were probably
all exact lookalikes. And feelalikes, she added grimly. If you
lived here, there was a fat chance your life was going nowhere
too.
   Despite all it had meant to her in its better days, now
sadly gone by, she was glad she had been offered a chance to
leave this neighborhood and move into the Real World, as she saw
it. The endless stream of holograms and all sorts of visual
effects had never been able to fascinate her, but now she had
really grown sick and tired of their unrelenting presence.
     A few minutes ago a hooded mugger had darted from behind a
portico, had rushed towards her only to pass straight through
her. It had been a hologram, obviously, in all probability not
more than a warning sign. Some inhabitant had constructed it to
warn all passers©by that his dwelling©place was best left alone.
The thing was that you were never quite sure what was real and
what was a hologram.
   Some of the cyberpets, as all sorts of mechanical and
computerized watchdogs were affectionately labeled, who were
roaming this neighborhood were quite real, for instance. They
could inflict genuine injuries which caused real pain. Some of
the cyberpets were quite smart, others were dumb machines, some
were malfunctioning. Of the latter you could only expect the
unexpected. A few moments ago she had seen a limping wolflike
pet crash into a wall, crushing its skull in the process. Its
legs had kept on thrashing and twitching, as if in unbelief. So
both the creature and the wall had been real © unless the whole
scene had been a holographic projection.
       She had no idea what the burning man might have been.
Another warning device? A malfunctioning piece of art? An
elaborate joke? Solid proof of someone's bad taste? Actually, it
didn't really matter. As long as you survived you didn't ask too
many questions in Nowhere City. You simply had to accept the fact
that the streetscape was mostly fake and that you weren't likely
to figure out what was real until it was too late. Some living
experience here did help, though.
      Cynthia took a sharp intake of breath and set off again,
carefully picking her way through the debris and obstacles
scattered all over the place. Even if it wasn't real, it was
better not to take anything for granted. Some of this social
twilight zone's inhabitants she passed by, both human and
otherwise, were quite real. Lots of street vendors were peddling
their wares, a great variety of stuff, most of it probably either
illegal or stolen. There was quite a bit of hardware and all
sorts of high©tech equipment. Stacks of disks and computerªrelated stuff. Loads of edible and drinkable material, depending
on your definition of those terms, and not all of it good for
your health © or your survival, for that matter. The sales raps
weren't the only sounds to rupture the silence.
        You often came across street bands playing live music in
this part of town. Most bands enhanced their high©energy act with
holo setups, and solicited audience participation. She was under
the impression that she hadn't seen all that many bands strutting
their stuff in recent times. That was a bad sign. Had they become
victims of the recession? Or had they drifted off to other parts
of town, or other Urban Areas where there was still room for
street musicians? That was hard to imagine. This place was as
good as any © or as bad, to put it more correctly. Maybe they had
just gone out of business, had grown discouraged, and were now
waiting for the right time to reappear on the scene. Who knew
what these guys would be forced to do in the meantime. It
reminded her very much of her own situation, and the sullen fate
she had been given the chance to escape.
       I've been lucky, she thought. I shouldn't complain. Just as
the going was getting tough she had been discovered by an Iªcatcher, a talent scout, of Eyescape Inc., who had been quite
impressed with her artistic endeavors. This had to be her chance
to strike it big, and she had grabbed the opportunity with both
hands.
 Times were getting lean and mean as the War grew bigger and
harsher. A recession had become inevitable, and the inhabitants
of Nowhere City were among the first to suffer from the ensuing
crisis © and among the most fiercely stricken. She had been a
professional visual artist all her life, but recently her
shoestring budget had dwindled away into a no©budget. Life was
becoming impossible ; she would have had to look for another job,
horrifying as that prospect was to her, if the offer from
Eyescape Inc. hadn't arrived, as if heaven sent.
       The megabuck bio©business was prospering as never before.
Eyescape Inc., the I©catcher had proudly informed her, was the
leader in that particular field and was expanding at an
astounding rate. They were hiring new forces all the time © and
she had been singled out especially. Eyescape Inc. could use
creative artists for a variety of purposes, the man had
explained her. We need people with a vivid imagination, people
who had a fresh outlook on things, people who came up with new
insights and approached projects from unusual angles. He used a
lot of words like "bold" and "daring" and "startling". He had
sounded so very convincing.
    Of course she had accepted the offer. She realized it was
her only way out of the mess her life threatened to become. And,
at least she hoped, she would still be an artist. A commercial
one perhaps, but an artist all the same. The life she left behind
was a shambles. She had severed the links with her relatives long
ago. She just didn't fit in with that crowd, and had preferred
quitting rather than being rejected. Her artistic ambitions had
always been frowned upon by her parents. "It's a tough world out
there," they used to say, "and you better get hold of a decent
job instead of whittling your life away with so©called art." No
one among her family had any artistic talent. No one accepted the
fact that she had. Her parents had fought a lifelong struggle to
work their way up in society © the wealthy City Center with its
awe©inspiring business district was at the core of their dreams
and hopes. Only hard and serious work could get you there. Art
didn't lead that way. Art was part of life's seedier side, and
the brand of art she was into flourished too much in the squalid
streets of Nowhere City. So her choice had been a simple one :
drop her artistic endeavors © or drop her family. It had taken
her some time to make that decision © a time filled with friction
and conflict © but she had never regretted her decision. It had
changed her outlook, however, on "normal" work and the struggle
uphill in the real world it supposedly made possible. If she ever
made it "up there", it would be on her own terms, through her
art, otherwise she would rather stay down where she was. At the
time this had seemed to be solid thinking.
     The world she would now leave behind was one of crime,
unstability, loneliness and fake surroundings. She hoped that one
day she would never have to set foot in Nowhere City again. She
detested its garishness, its hopelessness, its emptiness.
      She cast furtive glances all around her as she went along.
She had passed through here on many occasions, and each time it
had changed beyond recognition. Nothing lasted long in Nowhere
City. Or maybe they changed the holograms a lot. This was a world
where continuous change was the only constant. And she was glad
to move on.
    She was supposed to present herself at The I©Site, the
headquarters of Eyescape Inc. She had been provided with special
passes, for one didn't simply stroll from Nowhere City into the
privileged City Center. A face to face in©depth talk with a highªlevel executive had been scheduled, she had been told. Be there
at 1100 on Monday morning. And so here she was, on her way
towards bigger and better things. Well, she presumed they surely
couldn't be much worse than what crisis©ridden Nowhere City had
in store for her. At the very least it would feel more real.
Holograms and other eye©deceivers were frowned upon in the Real
World. That was one thing she would be glad never to run into
again.
 Slowly, carefully, methodically, Cynthia Raythan kept going
on her way out of glimmering, ever©changing Nowhere City, into
her future.


2

       "So," Sergeant Scrimshaw said, "you've all made a very wise
decision. There should be more people like you. If we are to
survive at all, we will have to make a statement. A very eloquent
statement at that. It will be up to people like you to go and
make that statement. And you better make sure it is heard loud
and clear."
    Words, Jim Reicher thought, words, as Sergeant Scrimshaw
rambled on. That wasn't what he had joined the War Force for. He
had a vision of the future, a bright and promising future, and he
had felt to the marrow of his bones that something had to be done
in order to safeguard that future. Responsible people had to
stand up and show some action. His father, a City Center Councilªlevel politician, had backed him all the way. It was nice to see
his vision and ambitions supported from ground level onwards. He
had been allowed to build towards this ambition, and was
determined to go all the way now that the first hurdles had been
successfully taken. After he had gotten his degree, his selected
curriculum being a well©balanced mix of science, history and
sports, he had embarked on an extensive War Force preparation
course. It had certainly proven to be well worth the time and
effort spent on it.
    He had passed the tests, as he had known he would all along.
He was eager to start the military training program now.
Fortunately that wouldn't take up too much time, thanks to the
state©of©the©art©technology the Special War Institute had at its
disposal. The old time©consuming approach to military training
was now a thing of the past. Things went ever so more smoothly
now with custom©made VRTs, Virtual Reality Trips, which yielded
better results in a shorter period of time without any loss of
personnel due to injuries and all sorts of accidents. Only the
psychologically unfit would drop out © if any had made it,
surprisingly, through the preliminary tests.
   The first few days in the Institute had been filled mainly
with all sorts of introductions and speeches. Lots of speeches,
way too many words. Jim hadn't been told anything he didn't know
already. He knew very well why he was here and what he had set
out to do. He didn't need the Scrimshaws of this world to point
out the obvious.
       So there was a war going on, labelled the War because of its
tremendous importance. Africa seemed like a faraway place where a
local war wasn't likely to influence world affairs let alone
daily life in the civilized world. But this was no petty local
guerrilla war. It didn't merely send ripples through the African
jungle © it shook the very foundations of western civilization.
The war had to come to an end © and it had to be won. That was
why he was here.
       The enemy consisted of a motley crew of outcasts, a loose
consortium of anti©western forces. About any species of antiªcivilized scum was represented in this slapdash army : it
included former terrorist groups, drug gangs, left and right wing
extremist revolutionaries, oppressed ethnic and religious
minorities, criminals and native population grouplets threatened
with extinction. There was not one enemy. The enemy was an
amorphous many©faced force. That didn't simplify the task of the
War Institute's divisions, centered in the Lower East Coast area
of the United States of North America and in Great Switzerland in
Europe respectively.
   There was one more thing of vital importance and of ominous
proportions to be taken into account : the cause of the war, and
the effect it had had on the battlefield. Colonel Scaglione had
devoted his entire speech to this topic, central as it was to
Operation Eye Witness, as their part in the War was to be
labelled. Recollections of various documentaries came flooding
back to him.
   Some ten years ago something had been discovered in the
heart of Africa. Its true nature or origins had never been
clearly explained, as far as he could recall. Most of that kind
of information was strictly classified. Scaglione, however, had
told them a fully detailed account would be given them at the
start of Operation Eye Witness. Whatever the cause might have
been, the face of Africa had been changing ever since at a
constantly increasing rate. Both flora and fauna were touched as
the "bio©catalysts", as they had been labelled, exerted their
ongoing influence.
     The bio©catalysts appeared to be byproducts of new strains
of mutant vegetation that had sprung up in Africa in an everªwidening area now referred to as the Afflicted Area. Most people
didn't know how they had come into existence or how their
capabilities could be explained, nor did they really care. All
that mattered was that the bio©catalysts speeded up or enhanced
cell growth and cell differentiation, and allowed tissue
regeneration, drastic damage repair, and the development of newer
and more efficient techniques for a variety of purposes. Because
of their characteristics they were used in the field of medicine
and bio©technology. As they presented certain risks in their raw,
natural form, Research and Development Centers had been created
in the Afflicted Area for study and refining.
  One thing had been very clear to all concerned : the bioªcatalysts were hot property. And more than that, everybody had
found out soon enough and had set out to reap this miraculous
harvest. The remnants of the original population of the stricken
area quickly fled, leaving the place to a variety of foreign
interested parties. A specially created trust of western
companies had claimed sole rights to the bio©catalysts © but soon
an irregular army of dubious intentions had countered the claim.
Trouble had started brewing, tensions had evolved into conflict,
skirmishes had escalated into war, war had finally led to the
War. Everybody knew it had to be brought to a stop before it
devolved into utter madness.
   After the first few days of general introductions in the
Institute they had been split up into groups of twenty. These
units would be trained as quickly and efficiently as possible,
and be dispatched to the Afflicted Area in due course. The purely
physical exercises merely intensified Jim's impatience to get
down to serious business. The first VRT was what he had been
looking forward to ever since he had arrived here. He was
familiar with some commercial ones, but these tailor©made
military trips were said to be gritty, realistic and quite
"different".
   As he and his nineteen cohorts plugged in for the first one,
his eagerness soon changed into mild disappointment. The
landscape they found themselves into was the old unchanged
African jungle. The battle they fought was a traditional armed
combat raid against a comparatively weak enemy. They won an easy
victory. It had felt real enough © but this couldn't be the War.
They had discussed it afterwards in the Institute bar.
 "It was just an introduction, to get into the spirit of
things," a guy named MacLyle had suggested. "Wait till we're
launched into the rest of the series. You'll see."
     "Don't be silly," Jim had said. "Didn't we get enough
introductions already? What are they waiting for? Who do they
think we are? Why do they think we're here?"
   "The real thing would piss us off," a man called Giancarlo
Frianelli had said. "You don't realize what we will be up
against. There's something real ugly out there, something badly
depressing. It would turn us into jelly. Believe me; I should
know. I've been told. I talked to a lotta people about this, I
haven't been wasting my time, I picked up a lot of stuff from
guys who know the things they won't be telling us."
    Jim had shrugged it off. Each group of twenty people was
bound to include one of these goddamned cynics. Those guys
thrived on this sort of paranoid crap. Better to let them babble
on and ignore their ramblings. He wouldn't let these bastards
interfere with the job at hand. It didn't matter what they
decided to do © he would get on with it and end up where he
wanted to be.
  With the second VRT came second thoughts. They had been
told to expect a "more realistic background, more fully developed
in tune with the current situation in the Afflicted Area". It
wasn't to be a pure combat situation, rather a reconnaisance
mission with some skirmish scenes. It was supposed to offer them
a glimpse into the universe that was to become theirs soon. There
was only one aspect of the briefing that pissed him off :
Frianelli's sardonic grin. If only he could wipe it off the man's
face. Preferably forever.
      So they had plugged in, expectantly.
   This time it wasn't possible to tell if this was the changed
jungle or not. Heavy mist swirled around them, obscuring the lush
vegetation. Undefinable, dull sounds reached their ears. They had
been split up into groups of four. MacLyle, Carvalho and
Frianelli accompanied him. They wore the custom©made protective
clothing that was said to be a necessity here. They carried light
but effective modern weapons, called MH©38s, unofficially
labelled Molly Hatchets. They carefully picked their way through
the shades of gray and green the junglescape consisted of. Their
feet made eerily squishing sounds with each laborsome step.
    When they exchanged words, their voices sounded muffled and
warped. After a few minutes Jim could no longer tell apart his
three cohorts. They had become as alienated, as unreal as the
fog©draped foliage around him. All at once Carvalho (no, MacLyle,
or perhaps Frianelli) lifted his hand and they stopped in their
tracks. Jim squinted in order to see better, to no avail.
      Something moved in front of Carvalho, or whoever the first
man was. Jim wished he could see more clearly. He tried to sweep
away the shreds of mist, but his sudden arm movement only made
the whitish streamers swirl around him furiously. He took a
hesitating step forward, peered at what now vaguely appeared to
be a vine©encrusted tree in front of which Carvalho was standing
motionless.
    The tree was changing shape and color. As green and brown
were turning into pink, it slowly and mesmerizingly took on an
increasingly human shape, as if mimicking the figures in front of
it. A torso was becoming visible, limbs, a crudely shaped head.
As more details became apparent, he could recognize the shape as
a sensual naked woman. The four men stared, unmoving, silent,
uncomprehending. The figure wasn't totally human; the hair was
tendril©like, and instead of arms pseudopodlike extensions
protruded towards Carvalho. Jim wanted to shout a warning, but
proved unable to utter a sound.
        The pseudopods had now reached Carvalho's immobile figure,
coiled around it, engulfed it. Soon it was totally enveloped, and
was pulled toward the tree©creature. Carvalho didn't resist, fell
heavily to the ground. The pseudopods rippled and coiled around
the motionless body, as if caressing it. Now Carvalho started to
change, his figure became a blurry image. Under their very eyes
Carvalho dissolved into an amorphous blob, which in its turn
collapsed into a bubbling puddle spreading across the mossªinfested ground.
    By now the pseudopods had crawled and twisted towards the
two other soldiers. Jim was glad he was at the back, but proved
unable to retreat further. The process seemed to repeat itself
with the second soldier, although the enveloping process this
time around bore a striking resemblance to love©making of a very
esoteric kind. As the third soldier also started to be affected
Jim noticed something stirring in the foliage all around. He
noted that various plant lifeforms had started to mimic parts of
the ongoing process. Leaves, twigs, vines and trunks were now
interspersed with uncoiling and shapeshifting limbs, faces,
breasts, sexual organs.
       Especially the faces were an unsettling sight : pouting lips
appeared for an instant and vanished quickly, replaced by a
sardonic grin here, a soundlessly screaming mouth there,
terrorized eyes and bared teeth, evil stares and voluptuous lips
begging for kisses. The most blood©curdling sight was a replica
of his own stunned face.
       He shifted his gaze back toward the dissolving soldiers, as
all at once everything disappeared. The VRT had come to an abrupt
end, for some reason as yet unknown.
   Afterwards, in the bar, Jim and his three partners huddled
together around a table to discuss the matter. They had been told
they had been exposed to a "damaged" VRT, and that such an
accident was unlikely to produce itself again for the remainder
of the training period. The three others had had a similar
experience, but each had been the guy at the back. No solid
explanation of the details had been given. The matter would be
looked into, they had been told, and eventually everything would
be sorted out.
 "I can't for a moment believe that this was anything like
what they had in mind," Jim said. "I know we were supposed to
expect something different, something changed beyond recognition,
but there's no way this was a solid reflection of the real thing.
I'm just not buying this story."
       "You bet you're right," Frianelli said. At last that
sickening grin had disappeared from his features. He was looking
dead serious now, clasping his beer tightly, locking eyes with
Jim's. "I've been told some of the VRTs have been tampered with."
      "Tampered with? By who? Is that what they meant by
"damaged"?"
   "Exactly. The guys responsible for this know how to do their
job properly. These hackers are cyberspace wizards, know what I
mean? We were the first to find out this particular VRT had been
"infiltrated". It'll be wiped now, but those hackers won't care.
It's done its job already."
    Jim mulled it over. It sounded too much like Frianelli's
usual paranoid nonsense, but he couldn't think of another
explanation right now that made sense.
 "Who are these hackers?" he asked. "And what are they trying
to do?"
        "I've been told they're war opponents," Frianelli said, and
the grin started coming back, to Jim's dismay. "They're trying to
disrupt the training programs. They hope we'll be scared shitless
and end up demoralized and will drop out of the War Force, or if
we don't we'll be worthless once we've been shipped over there."
       "Goddamn fucking bastards," Jim said. Whatever the case
might be, he wouldn't let them have their way. He would allow
nobody to stand in his way. Whoever they were, whatever their
means or purposes were. They were bound to fail. He was a winner,
a survivor. They would find out sure enough.
   Still he had some nagging doubts. Was Frianelli right? Or
had all this been supposed to happen? Was it a test in order to
find out how well they could cope with something unexpected,
something unreal, something unsettling? Were they trying to find
out who was psychologically able to live through these
experiences? There was only one thing he was sure of : it was no
reflection of actual reality out there. Those bio©catalysts had
admittedly lots of capabilities, but they couldn't come up with
the special effects extravaganza he had witnessed. He concluded
they had merely been tested on their reactions to all©out
weirdness. At least that theory made some sense. Yet, Frianelli's
idea of infiltrating hackers hadn't been completely dispelled.
It sounded too downright bad, too sickening to be dismissed out
of hand like that. Anyway, they were bound to figure out the
truth about it soon, so he shouldn't allow these ideas to
disturb his peace of mind.
     He would continue his training program as best he could.
Whatever they would throw in his way, he wouldn't be deterred.



Ã **Ã3


    Invigorating sunlight came slanting through the window.
There was a barely audible buzz in the room, the sound of office
equipment living its electronic life.
  "Welcome to Eyescape Inc.," art director Gene Kirzowski
said. He looked remarkably normal for a "new©lifer", as someone
belonging to the newly established jet©set of bio©technology
users was referred to. She had supposed this type of people were
all scarcely recognizable as human beings, but as usual her
preconceptions didn't turn out to be a good reflection of reality
© unless Kirzowski was an atypical example of Eyescape Inc.'s
employees. She was willing to give him the benefit of the doubt
on that score.
 "The pleasure is mine," she said, easing back in her comfy
chair. The furniture in this office probably cost more than what
she had earned in the past year or so. Kirzowski spread his hands
wide, made a well©rehearsed smile appear on his face.
  "Well," he said, "I suppose we both have a lot of questions
to ask, a lot of background to discuss, a lot of expectations to
unveil. So allow me to start off with a concise description of
Eyescape Inc.'s line of work. We're on the cutting edge of
biotechnology and all related fringe areas. The discovery of the
renowned bio©catalysts and our control thereof have boosted us to
our current number one position, which we will of course try to
consolidate. Right now we're expanding at a stunning rate.
Business is in full swing, and we're hiring a lot of bright new
talent. You, miss Raythan, are foremost among these."
  You probably say that to each and every interviewee, Cynthia
thought, but then again what else could the man say? She nodded
encouragingly, decided not to say anything for now. She waited
for him to continue.
   "You'll probably want to know what exactly we expect from
you, why you got hired in the first place. Well, the I©catcher of
ours who spotted you had been following your work for some time
already. Your artistic and commercial successes didn't go
unnoticed, as you will no doubt be pleased to hear. I'm afraid
I've only been handed a brief survey of your career, so if you
would care to add some in©depth comment..." He let his voice
trail off, looking at her expectantly.
 Nicely done, she thought. Let the interviewee tell you
everything you already know so as to make her feel more
involved, as if she's in control to a certain extent. Turn this
situation into a dialogue, so as to give it that ever so
important human touch. It'll make the interviewee look upon
Eyescape Inc. more kindly, make her feel as though she's about to
join a family rather than an impersonal business monolith. Oh
well, I'll play the game according to the rules, for the time
being at least.
        With as much enthusiasm as she could muster, she said,
 "I've been an artist for as long as I can remember. I
started off doing black and white illustrations for magazines,
the old printed©on©paper kind that is no longer around today. I
quickly switched to computer©driven graphical work for
advertising agencies, and from there I moved on to all types of
work for the movie and video market. As my work grew more mature
and more popular I jumped onto the VRT bandwagon that happened to
come along at precisely the right time for me, and I think I can
say I was fairly successful."
  "I've been told your creations often reached high positions
on all major VRT charts," Kirzowski said. "I've seen a number of
representative samples of it and was quite impressed, I must
admit. Frankly, I think you're a major talent which will only now
be allowed to reach its full potential here at Eyescape Inc."
  "I sure don't stand much of a chance anymore as a freeªlancer," she admitted. "The recession struck us all some firm
blows. I had considered getting another job, in another line of
work entirely."
        "It would have been a terrible waste of talent. But I
understand your choices were limited. However, all that has now
changed. You will be able to pursue your career with our
advertising branch. We need creative people for it, and as we're
not afflicted by the recession you'll be pleased to hear that you
can go for the no©holds©barred approach. As I said, we tend to
stretch people to the limits of their capacities, taking things
as far as possible. We've set up a number of new projects for a
new array of products, about which you will be told more soon. We
hope you will tackle these endeavors with renewed hunger and
passion." A wide grin slashed open his features. "We don't settle
for anything less than first©rate here at Eyescape Inc."
       "I think I feel at home already," she said in an even tone,
gazing coolly into his eyes.
   Of course she had signed on the dotted line, as they had
known all along she would. It was her only way out of misery and
poverty in a neighborhood which was deteriorating every day. The
contract that had been offered her was a new lease on life. A
guided tour of selected parts of The I©Site had followed the
interview with Kirzowski. She had seen what she had expected to
in the way of equipment, but not in the way of employees.
Apparently the people she was supposed to meet on this first day
had been carefully selected as well. Maybe it had been done not
to put her off. Or, possibly, not to put them off... It was well
known that the typical look of new©lifers wasn't appreciated by
the mere mortals of this world © and vice versa. As a rule the
members of these two very different castes hardly ever met. Their
lives didn't intersect.
        A guy who had been introduced to her as the scientific
advisor of her team had told her about the new product they were
developing and for which her team would design the advertising
VRT.
   "We're in the process of developing a new kind of artificial
skin," the man explained her. His features had been accentuated
with a sort of bioluminescent material that made him look unreal.
She realized the effect was mainly due to her being unfamiliar
with people using state of the art bio©technology, and anyway to
new©lifers' standards this guy was probably very moderate.
     "Actually it's part organic, part artificial, and it has
miniaturized computerized parts integrated in it. It's one of our
more daring products, and once it's ready to be commercialized it
ought to be a runaway success. That's where you come in, of
course. There'll have to be an advertising VRT to outdo all that
has gone before, something out of this world, some utterly mindªblowing stuff, know what I mean?"
      "What exactly is this new skin supposed to do?" she asked.
     The man smiled a gleeful little smile which sent a shiver
down her spine. "It's supposed to be able to make a visual scan
of its surroundings, and to pinpoint the face its owner is
looking at or addressing. It then goes on to mimic the features
of that face on the basis of its scan as realistically as
possible. The scanning process is continuous, so that the
mimicking process can be perfected as it goes along. Don't you
think that's marvellous? You're talking to some guy and your face
turns into his?"
       "I'm afraid I don't see the point of it all," she said, and
cursed herself immediately for saying those words. She knew what
the answer would be. She would have to learn to keep her
thoughts to herself, now that she was employed here. The answer
was what she had expected:
     "The point is that it will sell like crazy. What other point
should there be? What do you think Eyescape Inc. is anyway?" He
looked dismayed at her implied criticism. She would never make
that mistake again.
   The rest of the guided tour was very much a routine job. She
was sure she had been shown everything she needed to know and
nothing she was not yet supposed to lay eyes on. There had been
only one incident that had drove home the point this was a
totally new environment for her she would have to adapt to. At
an intersection of corridors she had seen a giant potted fern. As
real plants of that type had become virtually extinct in the
densely populated Nowhere City slums, she had taken for granted
that it was a hologram. By trying to walk through it she had
found out rather unelegantly that it was actually quite real. She
had to keep in mind that holograms simply didn't exist here.
This time people had pretended not to notice her stumbling
through the plant, but they wouldn't keep on doing so
indefinitely.
  After the tour she had exchanged some more words with
Kirzowski. He had said her actual training would begin tomorrow,
and that he would drop by at her place that night to discuss
certain matters more informally. She had managed to refrain from
making some cutting remarks.
   So Kirzowski would venture into Nowhere City at night. What
a joke. Of course she lived in the rim area of Nowhere City,
where notions like safety and stability and relative normality
hadn't yet become dim memories of a distant past as in the heart
of the slums. Still there was little chance Kirzowski would make
it to her apartment. Did the man realize the risk he was taking?
       Later that night, at home, she mulled over what had happened
today. This was the end of her old life, and hopefully the start
of a new one. She hoped to be able to move into the affordable
parts of the center of town with the money she would be making at
Eyescape Inc. Leaving this neighborhood behind was top priority
right now. The war and the resulting recession would only make
matters worse. This place would become unlivable all too soon.
 Thoughts of the war made her switch on the TV, an old©style
2©D set. She picked an all©news channel, took in the sounds and
images. The war seemed to be getting worse. It kept expanding and
was on its way to getting completely out of hand. But, a
newscaster announced joyfully, more and more young people
enlisted in the Special War Force to receive a short but
efficient military training and be shipped to the war zone. The
Force would see to it that the situation was kept under control.
       Still she had her doubts. If everything was really under
control there ought to be more TV crews out there shooting tons
of footage. That wasn't the case, and she took it as a bad sign.
The only combat scenes shown were clearly footage from earlier
conflicts, and all other material was talking head stuff,
politicians commenting on the state of things and stuff like
that. So it was definitely getting real bad out there, she could
sense that alright.
    As usual no hard facts were given. How exactly the war had
been going, what the losses were on both sides, what degree of
progress was being made if any, what current expectations were.
There hadn't been any new combat footage for several weeks by
now, and there had to be a reason for that. People weren't told
and most people seemed to accept this. It reminded her somewhat
of the equally skewed and incomplete coverage of the discovery of
the bio©catalysts which had sparked off this war. Nobody seemed
able or willing anymore to ask serious questions. She hoped her
landing this job would clear at least part of the mystery, as
Eyescape Inc. was smack in the middle of this whole bioªtechnology upsurge.
     News reports kept coming in and were enthusiastically
delivered, interspersed with commercials, but the more news she
assimilated the less clear her overall picture of the war seemed
to become. She switched off the TV in disgust.



Ã **Ã4

     "Riff!"
        He was wide awake in an instant, his slumber pushed aside.
You could only survive here if solid sleep wasn't necessary for
you. Solid things weren't in vogue here anyway, Riff thought,
locking eyes with Jigsaw who had called his name.
      "There's a van coming this way."
       "Fine. We better make sure it's ours soon."
    "Do we pop 'em the regular ones?"
      "Sure thing. Bound to work. Are the others on the job?"
        "Yup."
 He nodded approvingly. So there were still people from the
outside who dared to venture into Nowhere City. Or maybe they
didn't know it was wiser not to do so. In that case, they would
soon find out. Those occasions were getting rare though. Bad
times were hitting hard the population down here, and the border
of the city center and Nowhere City was crossed by fewer people
all the time. It had been some time since a vehicle had been
driving up here. Alright, so these were only the outskirts of
Nowhere City, they were still within walking distance of the
border, and the van probably wouldn't venture much further.
    So they should lose no time if they wanted to lay hands on
it. He and Jigsaw would supervise from nearby and would remain
out of sight, cloaked by holos. Meanwhile Axe and Marshall Stack
would man the holo rig, guiding the van to where they wanted it
and cloaking him and his buddy. Riff smiled. This was a sure win.
No sweat. The van driver didn't stand a chance.
        The two men set off towards their goal. A few instants later
they were looking at the van, which was slowly picking its way
through the debris©cluttered road. A holographic wall camouflaged
them. Riff carefully studied the van. It had a logo on its sides
reading EYESCAPE INC. Apparently there were two people in it. The
one behind the wheel was looking scared like hell, and not
without reason. Riff saw trouble coming as a cyberpet came
lumbering from between a house in ruins. It was clearly not one
of their appliances and could ruin their plans.
        The van braked to an abrupt halt as the driver noticed the
half©mechanical creature. Riff snorted with contempt. Had the guy
stopped because he was afraid to knock down the thing? That meant
their plan was in serious trouble. The dog ran straight through
the van and disappeared into a wall at the other side of the
street. Riff could hear the two men's voices now.
      "Did you see that, mister Kirzowski? How on earth©©"
   "It was clearly a hologram," the other man said. "This area
is infested with them. Only thing is, you can't know what is real
and what isn't before it's too late."
  "So what do you do?"
   The other man gesticulated vaguely. "Ignore them. Just keep
driving. But steer clear of the debris."
  "What if they're holos as well?"
       "Possible. But we can't risk to wreck the van. This isn't
the place to take a stroll." The van got moving again, slowly,
hesitatingly. The driver wasn't liking this one bit.
   "About time some of our stuff is let loose," Jigsaw
remarked.
      "Damn right," Riff said. "Should be coming up any second
now."
  "Aw, there it is," Jigsaw said. "They finally made up their
minds." Apparently their buddies had opted to start off
proceedings with the burning man. If these two guys were indeed
unfamiliar with holos then this one was a good choice. It would
scare them shitless and things would start rolling. The burning
man appeared from behind a door and staggered toward the van,
arms milling about, mouth wide open in a silent scream.
        The van picked up speed, as the driver wanted to get out of
the way of the burning man. At the end of the street he was
forced to turn right, as on his left a holographic wall had
popped up to camouflage an off©street and straight up ahead
piles of partly holographic, partly real junk and debris made a
pass impossible. Some distance away the van was forced to turn
right once more. It had picked up speed again, as it had been
attacked by a bunch of cyberpets, all holos of course, but the
driver wasn't willing to take any chances. He simply wanted to
get out fast, which was what Riff's gang wanted him to attempt.
        More and more holo creatures attacked the van from all
angles, and each new batch was more bizarre than the previous
one. They were the stuff nightmares were made of. As a matter of
fact most of these designs had probably been inspired by
nightmares. There were metal©clad and armor©plated monstrosities,
glinting in the harsh sunlight, red eyes sparkling like dashboard
telltale lights, running awkwardly and stumblingly because of
their supposed weight ; cyborg creatures sporting bizarre
combinations of flesh and metal, each one trying to score high
marks for originality and weirdness, with special attention to
the latter ; beasts inspired by ancient mythologies, glittering
with shiny scales, breathing bursts of fire through grotesque
tusks, flapping leathery wings, sporting twin heads, dragging
along multi©legged bodies ; deformed and mangled beings, as if
knocked over by cars, the tire tracks still clearly showing
across their blood©dripping carcass©like bodies, uncoiled
intestines trailing along behind them ; some of the holo
creatures were malfunctioning, flickering and shimmering, so that
anyone could clearly see what they were but people too scared to
notice that kind of thing. All of them, without exception, were
silent, not that this characteristic helped in any way to put
their prey at ease. Quite on the contrary, it seemed to enhance
the aura of menace emanating from this dismal flock of modern©
day bloodhounds.
       At each turn the driver was forced to turn right by
carefully placed holos. As panic was rising the two guys probably
hadn't noticed they were going in circles. The driver was
gradually losing control over his van. It was about time they
ended this madcap race. Axe and Marshall Stack must have figured
that much out too. The van was guided left for a change and was
then directed head©on towards a brick wall camouflaged as a
tunnel entrance. The moment the van hit the wall all holos were
switched off. They had served their purpose.
  The van crashed into the wall. Splintered glass and warped
metal were scattered in all directions. The two men clambered
out, one of them seriously injured. The driver was still in
reasonable shape and ran off. Some of the holo pets were switched
back on and sent after him. The injured man limped in the
opposite direction, disappeared in a doorway. The driver fell,
struggled to his feet again and screamed in panic. The pets were
all over him then, and through him. As he realized he had been
chased by holos he went nuts and started yelling and thrashing
about and flailing his arms.
   Riff saw how a cyborg creature approached the man. It wasn't
one of their creations, but he bet the guy wouldn't see the
difference. Indeed the man tried to run straight through the
creature only to find out it was very real indeed. The dog©sized
contraption, shaped like a giant ant, had a flickering neon sign
on its back reading "One of THEM". Its metal jaws slashed through
the man's flesh and tore him apart, then retreated, its job done.
It went scrambling back to wherever it had come from. The man was
left, heavily bleeding, on the pavement. He would probably die
there. The other guy was nowhere to be seen. Sure enough he would
run into some cyborg creatures as well and undergo a similar
fate.
  Riff and Jigsaw considered this part of the job done and ran
towards the totalled van. There should be enough parts and scrap
metal here to make some serious dough. Not to mention all the
computerized parts which they would have to disassemble
carefully. As a rule these ought to be crash©resistant. With a
bit of luck some state of the art hardware and software could
have fallen into their hands here. They would make a proper study
of their trophy and angle for as high a profit as possible.
Potential buyers weren't exactly in short supply in the darkest
recesses of Nowhere City. Hackers were always begging and
grovelling for more stuff to feed their special kind of hunger.
Some moments later Axe and Marshall Stack arrived too and they
all started the work of disassembling the van into manageable
pieces. The two poor bastards had really made their day. Too bad
they hadn't lasted long enough to go and say thanks to them.



Ã **Ã5

       Jim emptied his glass in one gulp. The beer was terrible,
utterly tasteless, but probably this was their last chance to
have some. Once they had reached their destination they weren't
likely to get hold of "luxury consumer products" as Sergeant
Scrimshaw had warned them. Transformed Africa was no theme park,
boys. They would be there for a mission which would demand their
complete attention.
    The military training program had sped past with a rapidity
comparable only to Jim's eagerness to get down to serious
business. He had passed every test with flying colors and the
program had left him wanting more. As far as he was concerned
they could send him to Africa yesterday. He had been through a
few other "damaged" VRTs, but nothing as spectacular as the first
one, nothing that had managed to steer him off©course. There had
been one occasion where they had run into a batch of a dozen
enemy soldiers. They had opened fire at close range, but to their
astonishment the soldiers simply didn't seem to notice the loads
of ammunition that were blasted through their bodies. They
continued their march relentlessly, sardonic grins smeared across
their hysteric faces. As the shooting went on and blood poured
more and more abundantly from scores of wounds that just had to
be lethal, they slowly turned into an army of walking dead,
spouting fountains of blood, puddles and rivulets of blood
gathering at their feet, organs and shreds of tissue dangling
from their quickly decaying frames and dropping viscously to the
ground. They trudged and lumbered onwards through the jungle, a
nauseating mockery of armed combat. They didn't even put up a
fight; they simply didn't give a damn, allowed the enemy to blast
them to kingdom come without so much as paying notice. Military
training had deteriorated into a splatter©and©gore extravaganza.
       On another occasion they had all at once come across a glade
in the forest. A line of enemy soldiers was awaiting them. As
they stopped dead in their tracks, the line broke and the
soldiers came rushing towards them. They barely had the time to
open fire and when they did so it had no effect whatsoever on
the oncoming force. Before they fully realized what was
happening, the attackers were upon them and flashed right through
them. So they had been holograms. This mockery of his training
disgusted Jim more than the first one, paradoxically enough.
Blood and dripping organs can easily be ignored when you presume
they're not real. But holos were different : they reminded Jim
and his cohorts of the slums around their former home towns.
Holos were frowned upon in the upper or middle classes where they
came from. Holos were the trademark of lower class populace in
their glittering ever©changing slums where human life was cheap
and a privilege for the quick and the remorseless. Or so at least
they had been told. What was wrong with holos was that they were
fake, and hence not worth the trouble having them made. If you
needed something, you had the real thing made, not a mere image
of it. That was considered to be bad taste. So the holo enemy
soldiers had shocked Jim; not visually, like the blood©dripping
corpse©like creatures, but socially, culturally, emotionally. It
had taken him quite some effort and moral strength to shrug this
episode off. Still, he couldn't allow even this to get in his
way. Not everybody had turned out to be that strong, however.
  About one third of his group had dropped out for several
reasons. Some had grown severely depressed with what they had
gone through. Others had become uncontrollably rebellious because
of these unsettling experiences. The cases that struck Jim the
most were those guys who had still seemed to be okay, but who had
been dismissed because the military thought they could no longer
be trusted. It was rumored those guys were infiltrants whose
cover had been blown. Jim wondered what their purpose was. What
the hell were they trying to do? And, another unsettling thought
occurred to him, could it be that Frianelli was one of those
infiltrants who had managed to slip by unnoticed? But then why
did he give vent to his criticism so openly? That probably meant
he was an ordinary cynic, not an infiltrant. Still he had his
doubts about the man.
  In the meantime he had become friends, for want of a more
applicable term, with a number of others whom he had grown to
view as strong personalities, different as they were from him.
Frianelli was among these, the diehard cynic, but perhaps the
cynicism was but a facade. Who knew what lay hidden behind it?
Carvalho and MacLyle were also among them, quiet but apparently
trustworthy buddies, and a strange but okay guy called Van Zant.
       They were in the bar at the military airport, waiting to
check in for the flight to the Afflicted Area as it was
officially referred to, discussing things for the last time. The
last time in this part of the world, to be more precise. Carvalho
ordered another round of beer. As the drinks arrived, Frianelli
raised his glass in mock salute and declared in a solemn tone of
voice, "To the survivors. So far, we've made it. Admit it, we're
the chosen few."
       Carvalho laughed, MacLyle and Van Zant sniggered a polite
snigger, Jim was unable to appreciate Frianelli's brand of humor,
as usual.
      "Well, some of us haven't made it this far, have they, Jim?"
the man asked, putting his already half empty glass back down.
 "You make it sound as if all of us were supposed to make it
through the training program. I believe one of the aims of this
program was to weed out all unstable elements. I think they were
counting on a certain number of dropouts. Guys who couldn't take
the strain. Guys who weren't nearly as tough as they thought they
were. Guys who©©"
      "Guys who were weaker than you, that's what you mean. You're
a tough one, aren't you, Jim? You take no shit, eh? Nothing will
be allowed to get in your way?" The grin was firmly back in place
again.
 "What about you then?" Jim retorted. "Why are you here? If
you know so goddamned much as you claim, if you're so aloof, so
looking down upon everything and everyone, what are you here for
then? Is this your idea of a large scale practical joke?"
    "No, it ain't, Jim. I'm here for the same reasons you are.
Only thing is, I just don't accept anything they tell me. I've
got a critical mind, and I like to keep my eyes and ears open. I
refuse to be blinded by my own ambitions, Jim." He raised his
hand as he saw Jim was about to retort again. "Don't say
anything, Jim. Just think about it. And let's change the subject,
alright? This is our last hour in the old world. These are our
last beers. This may be our last chance to have fun the way we
know it. So let's enjoy it instead of bickering."
      Jim looked away from the others. Carvalho struck up a
conversation about sports cars and racing, apparently a
passionate concern of his. Jim's attention drifted back to his
own concerns. He still had his doubts about the "damaged" VRTs.
He was still inclined to think they had been "damaged" on purpose
by the military to test the recruit's strength of character. If,
so the reasoning must have been, they were unable to take these
mild irritants, than what would they be worth in Africa where
worse things awaited them? Frianelli's theory sounded plausible,
but still he thought his own explanation was closer to reality.
It fit in perfectly with the workings of the military mind as he
knew it.
       The conversation went from sports cars via crude jokes to
contrived humor about their training. Jim took little or no part
in it, preoccupied as he was with his own musings.
     It was a relief to hear they were to check in for the
flight. The plane was of the New Hercules type, an elegant modern
military craft which would take them direct to their main base in
the Afflicted Aera, or to be more precise, at the rim of the
Area. He knew the base was called Nairobi, but there was no
relation with the old city of that name in what used to be
Kenya. All military Bases in the Afflicted Area were named after
capitals of the former African countries before the catastrophic
breakup, speeded up if not caused by the appearance of the bioªcatalysts and the transforming process resulting from it. A full
briefing would be given them there, they were told. He hoped that
this time around it would indeed be a "full" briefing. After all
there was no need to bother about security leaks and classified
information in the Afflicted Area itself. Or so at least he
assumed. Frianelli would probably have his doubts.
     The flight proved to be uneventful. They all plugged into
one of the in©flight VRTs. Jim opted for the action©adventure
format rather than the sports spectacular or the erotic
extravaganza. He failed to see the point of it all. Why not pass
them some final instructions VRT or anything that could be
useful? The VRT didn't simply fail to enthrall him; he was bored
shitless.
      As they unplugged they were already nearing the landing
site, but were still too high in the air to have a clear view of
the landscape underneath. As the plane lost altitude everyone
tried to peer outside to catch their first glimpses of the
transformed jungle. However, there was nothing clearly
"different" from what could be considered normal. For some, this
was a relief. Others turned out to be sorely disappointed. Jim
failed to understand the people in the latter category. Did they
take life for a glossy VRT? Weren't they convinced of the
seriousness of the situation? Were these guys here to have fun?
If so they would be in for some surprise. The true nature of war
would become very clear to them soon enough, Jim thought.
    He was pleased to see that the rest of the day went
according to schedule. They landed, disembarked, were shown to
their quarters and submitted to a short paperwork routine. After
that they were given a reasonably decent meal in the cafetaria
and were then to be present for a formal welcoming and briefing
session by Captain Dos Santos. Jim appreciated the atmosphere of
military orderliness and routine they had slipped into already.
He was glad to see that the rumors Frianelli and his ilk seemed
to thrive on were nonsense, or at least greatly exaggerated.
   Dos Santos would address them in Hall C of Nairobi Base.
Hall C turned out to be a squat, rectangular building, its
interior design not unlike an old cinema theater. As military
formalities were over, the long awaited briefing finally began.
        "Your presence here," Dos Santos was saying, "is an integral
part of Operation Eye Witness which is already firmly underway.
You will reinforce troops currently on the verge of a major
breakthrough, poised as they are on the brink of an event which
may well change the evolution of this war. The total defeat of a
rebel army in Sector E17, a sector at the rim of the Afflicted
Area, is but a few days away. Your arrival here may well prove to
be the decisive factor in this particular battle. As there is no
time to waste you will join the action with the smallest possible
delay. Your training has provided you with a solid foundation on
which to build. Still, it is but a foundation. Your real training
will be the on the job training that is to commence shortly.
Specific details will be given you tomorrow morning by the
platoon leaders. It goes without saying that©©"
        Captain Dos Santos was interrupted by a variety of things
happening simultaneously. The lights in Hall C flickered a few
times, dimmed, flared up again to their previous level. Deep
rumblings and rapid gunfire staccato could clearly be heard even
here inside. An unseen phone on the lectern made angry beeping
sounds. Dos Santos answered the phone, excused himself and
departed. A lower ranking officer turned up to tell them the
briefing session had to be postponed because of "unforeseen
incidents." Jim cast a glance over his shoulder, locked eyes with
Frianelli who was sitting behind him. The man nodded, as if all
this merely confirmed the doubts he had been harboring ever since
the beginning. See, I told you so, he seemed to be saying. I've
known it all along. This doesn't come as a surprise to me at all.
      They were returned to their quarters, where all sorts of
material was handed out to them : detailed maps of the area, a
map of Nairobi Base, a booklet featuring all information on
anything they needed to know about life in the Base : from
medical matters through recreation and home contact regulations.
They all started studying the material as had been required.
Evening gradually stretched into night. Nothing of any importance
seemed to be happening anymore. If this was supposed to be a
focus of military operations bristling with feverish acitivity,
then Jim would like to see the resort areas in the neighborhood.
       One of their group, a thin Portuguese guy whose name he
hadn't caught, had tried to find out what the "unforeseen
incidents" had actually been, but he had returned without solid
answers. It all would be made clear in tomorrow's briefings.
Everything seemed to be always in tomorrow's briefings. I'll have
to watch myself, Jim thought, or I'll turn into another
Frianelli. Or maybe cynicism was contagious.
  Later, as the lights had been switched off and they lay in
their cots, sleep didn't come (it must have been postponed till
tomorrow's briefings, Jim thought smugly) and whispered
conversations were started all over. Jim had Frianelli to his
right (another irony of life; why did fate keep cutting him these
raw deals?) and the man, a barely perceivable shape in the
darkness, called his name.
     "Well, what do you think, Jim?"
        "You want to know my first impressions?"
       "The second ones too. No seriously, do you think this place
is what it is supposed to be?"
 "It's more or less what I expected it to be."
  "You can't be serious. Let me tell you, my first idea was
that this place which ought to be in full swing right now from
what they've been saying rather gives me the idea that a slow
buildup of armed forces is aimed for here. But of course that
doesn't make any sense. So©©"
  "So what?"
     "Well, then I started thinking that it could be like some
last©ditch effort to try to save at least something. The game has
pretty much been lost, only they're not willing to accept that
idea, know what I'm saying?"
   "I know very well what you're saying. You're jumping to
conclusions, and your theories are based on vague impressions and
wild theories. Why can't you just wait till you've got some hard
facts?"
        There was silence for a moment, then Frianelli's voice was
back again, a bit huskier now. "Look up, Jim. At your right.
There's one of your hard facts."
      Jim looked in the indicated direction. An eerily glowing
spot was climbing up the wall, easily seen despite the dimness of
the room. It wasn't a glowing spot : it was a fluorescent lizardªlike shape, casting a greenish pall around it as it slowly moved
upward. Its eyes were red beads, like a car's taillights dimly
perceived through a misty haze. As the creature halted its
progression for a moment, Jim sat upright and took a closer look
at the animal as his eyes had now fully adapted to the low light
level. In disbelief he noted that the lizard's body appeared to
be pearl©encrusted, covered with dully shining scales. Suddenly
it continued its ascent, planting its webbed feet higher and
higher. Frianelli's wrong, he thought. This isn't a hard fact,
it's a symbol. It symbolizes the fact that we're smack in the
middle of a major league metamorphosis the nature of which we
haven't yet fathomed and we're not likely to put a stop to it.
The creature's presence here was living proof of that. He leaned
back, elbow resting on his pillow. Pull yourself together, Jim,
he then thought. You shouldn't get carried away with your
imagination, you shouldn't allow yourself to be so influenced by
this Frianelli guy. That guy's mind was too feverish, too
critical, too downright paranoid. The lizard was perhaps an
innocent byproduct of the transforming process. Better to keep a
critical eye on Frianelli. The guy was a victim of his own
imagination, of his paranoid delusions. Apart from that, he
talked too much. He was a liability.
   Anyway, Frianelli was drawing the wrong conclusions : if the
situation was indeed that desperate, then they ought to stay
determined and give it their best shot instead of succumbing to
despair. Still, he felt disturbed despite himself. He looked up,
but the greenish glow had disappeared now. Frianelli was lying
back and breathing regularly, possibly asleep. Most conversations
seemed to have died down. Were they the only ones to have seen
the weird creature? He sighed, comforted himself with the thought
that everything would become clear soon enough. Better to get
some sleep now. Suppose the all©revealing briefing session did
come up tomorrow and he missed it because he had dozed off after
a sleepless night. Then he'd be at a loss. Worse, he'd be at
Frianelli's mercy. Sleep came quickly after this sobering
thought.



Ã **Ã6

   "Hi, I'm Denise DiMarzio, and you must be Cynthia, right?"
     "I am," she said, looking in confusion at the voluptuous
blonde who had apparently taken possession of Kirzowski's office.
She wore a transparent dress so as to reveal her triple©breasted
chest, a favorite among certain types of new©lifers she had been
told. The girl flashed her a bright smile.
     "I suppose you had wanted to see Mr. Kirzowski?"
       "I had been told to come up here to his office."
       "Of course, I see. The thing is, Mr. Kirzowski will be
absent for a few days and in the meantime I will replace him.
He'll be out of the hospital very soon, though. There's nothing
to worry about."
       "The hospital?"
        "Yesterday night he ran into some trouble. Apparently he had
ventured into the slums area and his van must have been attacked
by a mob of locals. You know how things are out there."
        So the bastard had actually done it, she thought. He had
told her he was going to pay her a visit. Well, he shouldn't have
been so goddamn foolish. Strangers, and especially new©lifers,
weren't exactly welcome in Nowhere City.
       "He should be glad he made it out alive," she said.
    "Well at least he did," Denise replied. "The driver didn't.
And the van was lost too. Gene managed to find his way back on
foot. Incredible, isn't it? Really some guy! Hard to put his kind
down!"
 "Was he badly injured?"
        "Very badly. But that doesn't really matter. Eyescape
Inc.'s personnel is quite privileged as far as medical matters
and surgery in particular are concerned. He'll be up and running
in a matter of days. As a matter of fact you will be able to see
how fast he's making progress. You're supposed to visit him in
the hospital later this afternoon. He asked for you to come too
specifically. It'll give you a chance to see our line of work in
a real©life situation. Add to that the fact that you'll see the
effects on somebody you know and you'll understand everything
more intimately. It will provide you with an outlook on us with a
personal dimension. The human angle, know what I mean?"
        "I think I do," she said quietly. I should have expected
something along these lines, she thought. There was an uneasy
silence for a lingering moment, then Denise inhaled heavily and
said, "Well, let's see what you're supposed to do right now. Mr.
Alan Lundlow will discuss this new project with you at some
length, what you're supposed to accomplish, how to go about it,
which elements to take into account, how your work ought to be
organized and so on. Oh, there's one more thing : don't be put
off by his eyes. I know your background and your reactions to
that kind of thing." Denise chuckled, somewhat condescendingly.
"Wait," she continued, "till you've seen Nelson O'Donnell, chief
executive of budget control and a real over©the©top new©lifer.
You may well raise an eyebrow when you're introduced to him. Or,
for that matter, to Jordan Haggles himself. Oh, I'm sure you'll
just love him." This time she produced a downright smug chuckle.
Cynthia hadn't yet been introduced to Haggles, Eyescape Inc.'s
Number One and the incarnation of everything New Life entailed.
She shuddered at the very thought.
     So everyone here was very much aware of her background and
didn't quite appreciate it. She would have to live with that. She
could expect quite a number of references to it, some bound to be
rather sarcastic or even downright vicious, and she'd better get
used to it. If she allowed that kind of remarks to bother her,
life would be sheer hell at the I©Site.
        The sight of Alan Lundlow turned out be quite a shock to her
despite Denise's warning. His left eye was a bulging blood©red
orb, glistening and sparkling, no doubt designed to send shivers
down the spines of those who had to look into it. His right eye
didn't make matters easier : a bright metallic©looking disc
showing not the least amount of human emotion or even giving the
impression of being part of an organic entity. It could well have
been part of a scanning device. Together the two eyes turned
Lundlow's features into a parody of a human face. She wondered if
the eyes had any special optical capacities normal eyes lacked,
or was this merely plastic surgery done in extremely bad taste?
And who knew how hideous the changes inside his body were... At
least those weren't so mercilessly apparent. The unnatural,
inhuman eyes filled her with revulsion, and she had some trouble
keeping her face straight. Lundlow appeared to find her illªconcealed reaction quite amusing judging from his smirk.
   "So you're the bright young talent," he said. "Welcome,
Cynthia. I'm sure we'll make a splendid team."
 "No doubt about it," she answered. She was asked to follow
him into the studio that was to become their work©shop for the
weeks to come, known as the I©lash. They picked their way among
pieces of equipment to a desk and a couple of chairs where they
sat down. Lundlow turned his nauseating face in her direction.
 "If I'm correctly informed," he began, "you've already been
told the basics. Our research department is in the final stages
of producing a new type of artifical skin whose characteristics
have been explained to you. Here at the I©lash we'll have to back
up this achievement with an advertising campaign that will have
to outdo everything that has gone before. Our new product
shouldn't be just another runaway success like many of our
previous products. It ought to set new standards, ought to
present the public out there with something of groundbreaking
proportions. We'll have to come up with a VRT that is not merely
sensational, not simply brilliant, but a genuine milestone in
virtual reality history. Would you care for a drink?"
  He reached for a cabinet behind him, produced two cans of a
drink unknown to her named Pop©I and popped open both of them
without waiting for an answer. She gladly accepted it, took a
gulp from the can and found it to be quite bland. But then again
what else could she expect in this utterly tasteless environment?
Not to mention the face of her host...
      Lundlow leaned back in his chair, looked her in the eyes
with his two atrocious vision©constructs (she couldn't bring
herself to view them as eyes proper) and gesticulated vaguely.
 "Now I'm not too sure what you're working methods were when
you developed your own VRTs but it isn't really of any
importance. You'll have to adopt our working methods instead. So
let me explain this to you. We start from a storyline, to be
discussed at some length with me and Gene. Once it has been
okayed you can turn it into a storyboard which will form the
basis of the actual work. This too, like every other single step
of the process, has to be okayed by the people in charge of your
department."
   "Gene Kirzowski?"
      "Yes, but you'll also deal with me and possibly Denise. Gene
isn't always here. As a matter of fact he's not here right now.
He has a lot of business to attend to."
        "I know," she said. "I mean, I know where he is now. I'm
supposed to visit him this afternoon." And, she added in thought,
I know what kind of business he had in mind when he ventured
outside of the safe haven that the I©Site and the city center
constituted for him.
   "I see," Lundlow said, "you've been told more than I
presumed." She was unable to read his facial expression, due to
the mock©eyes that totally warped his features. She would have to
rely on his tone of voice or his smiling/non©smiling or his
gestures. Or his words, for what they were worth.
      "Well," he continued, "the finished product, once okayed by
all of us has to pass a final test. And when I say final, I very
much mean final. You see," he said, placing his forearms firmly
on the desk and moving his head closer to hers, thereby sticking
the two horrible eyes way too close to her face, so that it took
her some serious effort and massive self©control not to recoil in
horror. "our leading man mister Haggles himself has taken an
enormous interest in this new line and insists on inspecting it
himself, down to the tiniest detail. That includes, of course,
the promotional VRT that you'll be developing for it. Now that
isn't exactly standard policy but it shows how crucial this new
baby of ours is to the development and expansion of Eyescape Inc.
It also should keep you on the edge of your seat, make you
realize how truly important this job is, urge you to really give
it your best shot. Am I making myself perfectly clear?" He leaned
back again, therewith mercifully moving those dreadful eyes away
from her, emptied his can of Pop©I with a final gulp, crumpled
the can in his hand, dropped it onto the desk.
 "Absolutely," she said. "You're a very eloquent man, Alan.
When do I start?"
      "As soon as possible. This is what I suggest you do right
now : plug into a VRT ad for one of our previous products. Study
it carefully, with a professional eye. It's the best and easiest
way to get acquainted with the sort of work that's expected from
you. After all, we used this method to get to know your work.
We've recently been given the opportunity to plug into some of
your stuff and I must say I for one was quite impressed. I'm
curious what you will come up with now that you're backed with
the resources and financial means of Eyescape Inc. It's my
opinion that we're in for a real treat. So, put very simply, your
task now is to prove me right. Are you up to that?"
   She stared him into the eyes for a moment, trying to detect
some glimmer of humanity, some shred of emotion, and failed
utterly.
       "No problem," she said, and he nodded approvingly. "When do
I start?"
      "What about right away?" he said. "I'll give you the basic
version of a recent VRT ad of ours. There's an extended version
too, but that won't tell you more, it'll just take more time.
I'll show you."
        A few moments later she had plugged into the VR rig.

  Business was good at Joe Chioppo's Pizzeria and getting
better every day. The place was crammed, and activity was ultraªhectic in an unprecedented way. She had been very lucky to find a
seat at one of the tables in a brightly lit corner. It was a
table for four, at which five people were already wolfing down
their meals. Mr. Chioppo had his own definition of the free seat
concept. A waiter popped up as if out of nowhere and she ordered
a Venetian lasagna, a new item recently added to the menu she was
eager to try out.
      As it took about a complete minute to micro©wave a dish to
a level that could be described as edible (according to Mr.
Chioppo's criteria) she observed the other customers at her
table. One of them, a Mexican type judging from his dark©hued
skin and the special glint in his eyes that gave away Mexicans in
cheap VRTs, suddenly put down his knife and fork, leaned back in
his chair and groaned. He closed his eyes, wiped sweat from his
brow with the back of his hand. "Oh boy," he said. "Oh my God."
He burped, concluded his monolog with "Aw shit," and began to
shake and shudder all over his body. The trembling kept growing
worse, and blood started to seep from cracks in his skin, which
was being ripped apart by the forces wreaking havoc inside his
body. In the meantime her lasagna had arrived, and she got down
to eating it right away. If it took you more than ten minutes to
finish your meal, you had to pay twice the rate. It was Mr.
Chioppo's way to encourage fast eating, the idea being that slow
eaters occupied their seats for too long which was detrimental
to good business.
      Mr. Chioppo had a special type of humor too. A Venetian
lasagna turned out to be an ordinary lasagna half©drowned in salt
water. Well, it cost considerably less than what she usually
selected, so she didn't complain. As she munched and swallowed as
fast she could (several customers were already queuing up behind
them to take their seats) the Mexican guy emitted his final burp
and burst apart completely into a sticky mass of fractured bones,
ripped skin, blood©dripping organs and shredded tissue. She tried
not to watch it, but still the guy's death had spoiled her
appetite somewhat. The girl next to her commented, "Lucky man. He
died before he paid the bill."
 "Food poisoning," another girl added. "Happens every once in
a while." The first in line behind them was glad to see a seat
vacated earlier than expected and sat down without bothering
about the blood and bits still clinging to the chair. As she was
halfway through her lasagna, having poured the salt water onto
the floor, the sound of shattering glass diverted her attention
for a moment from her meal. She cast a glance over her shoulder
and saw a man clad in black, face concealed behind a hangman's
mask, hand clutching a small object apparently about to be thrown
in the middle of the pizzeria. "Justice at last!" his muddled cry
came from within the mask. "We will prevail!" With these words
the man threw his gas grenade (she had recognized the object the
moment it had left the man's hand) into the far corner of the
pizzeria and hurriedly left through the front window he had
shattered on his spectacular entry.
    Of course, she thought as she continued eating. This is the
second Tuesday of the month, the day allotted to the Anti©Tourist
Agency as far as terrorist outrages were concerned. But wasn't
there a second organization in the same day©slot, she wondered.
The thought had barely entered her mind as the back window also
burst apart into splinters when a terrorist representing the
Anti©Journalist League (now she remembered!) came crashing in,
carrying an automatic rifle. Most of the customers went on
eating, fearing the double rates if they slowed down too much. A
number of customers at the other end where the gas grenade had
exploded were already dying, madly thrashing about on the floor,
faces contorted beyond recognition, arms flailing and
windmilling, veins bulging up and bursting apart, mouths
screaming and raving in agony.
 Fortunately the shattering of the back window had caused a
strong draft blowing most of the gas out of the pizzeria, to the
displeasure of innocent passers©by. The people in her part of
the area could continue their meals without much inconvenience.
The newcomer, however, hadn't brought along his automatic rifle
merely as a demonstration model. After shouting the antiªjournalist manifesto in a curiously high©pitched voice he opened
fire at random on the remaining customers. Unabashed carnage was
the result. As, once more, bits of fractured bone and ripped
flesh and shreds of clothing began flying all around her, she
swallowed her last mouthful of lasagna, shot a glance at her
watch, noted with relief that she had managed it all in a mere
eight minutes. That meant she had escaped the dreaded double
rate, so she left the money on the blood©covered counter and
hurried outside in a desperate attempt to escape imminent death
as well. She was lucky, but she wasn't the only one.
   Mr. Chioppo himself was waiting for her, standing among the
dead bodies of the unfortunate passers©by who had been killed by
the gas. He smiled as she came out of the wrecked pizzeria, arms
spread wide as if welcoming a long lost daughter.
      "So glad to see you made it, ma'am," he said, genuine relief
in his voice. "You've been very lucky, but do you realize that
won't always be the case? Look at these poor devils at your feet
and inside my little place. Next time you could be one of them. A
terrifying prospect, don't you think? Well, it will no doubt
interest you to hear there's a graceful way to eliminate these
dangers from your life. Have you already considered Eyescape
Inc.'s new line of bio©products at affordable prices?" He was
silent for a second, an effective dramatic pause, and resumed his
sales talk before she had the chance to say something.
 "Take the food poisoning, for instance. Are you familiar
with the array of digestion©related items Eyescape Inc. is
offering? Extra©strong stomachs, poison©resistant, able to digest
substances dangerous or even lethal to man, not to mention the
additional opportunity to have a set of spare copies of these
organs tailored to your needs and custom©made to your
specifications stored safely away for you to avoid delays and
waiting periods in emergency situations. Why pass up this chance
to enhance your pleasure in life, to boost your freedom to go and
do as you wish?
        "Take the gas attack. Eyescape Inc. is also offering lungs
and assorted organs able to deal with a variety of unpleasant
situations, and spare copies can also be pre©ordered as is the
case with all the items offered by this humanitarianism©driven
organisation. Take the gunfire attack. No longer any need to
worry about bullets riddling your gorgeous body, about the
destruction of vital organs, about injuries or loss of blood or
scars marring your perfect features. Fast©cloned replacement
parts can be ordered, 'natural' or 'modified' according to your
wishes and your budget, and if you're really smart and affluent
you have copies of everything you care about pre©ordered and
stored safely to minimize your displeasure. This is truly a
death©defying offer! Don't pass it up. Contact your local dealer
as soon as possible for prices and full catalogs. Don't hesitate.
Tomorrow it may be too late already! Go now!" Mr. Chioppo winked
gleefully and disappeared in a puff of smoke.

 "Well?" Lundlow asked as she had plugged out. "What do you
say?"
  "Nice work," Cynthia said. "Very much tongue in cheek, but
that's the sort of thing that people seem to want these days."
 "Damn right," Lundlow said. "Realistic or moderate stuff is
definitely out. People who plug into commercial VRTs expect to
have their imagination tickled, they like to plug out chuckling
and sniggering, they have to end up with fond memories of their
trip and hence of the advertised products and its manufacturers.
That, of course, is the whole point."
   "I had gathered as much," she said. "Still, I think it's
perfectly possible to add some depth and punch without cutting
down on the absurdism and the over©the©top humor. That's the
direction I'd like to take my work in here."
   "No problem," Lundlow said, nodding appreciatively, "I'm
looking forward to your proposals. I really am."

     The Silverwing Hospital was only a block away from the IªSite, and it had taken only a short drive with a company bus to
get them there. The group included Denise and two other persons
she hadn't met before. She had been briefly introduced but had
forgotten their names almost instantly.
        The hospital was an enormous many©tiered structure, a
complex piece of architecture with helicopter landing pads,
suspended gangways between blocks and pavillion©like
constructions attached to the main buildings. The hectic activity
all around the buildings and the surrounding area formed a sharp
contrast with the tranquillity and clinical serenity which
reigned inside the hospital. A guide, clad in immaculate white
and silent as if his life depended on keeping this place quiet,
led them to Kirzowski's private room.
  As she had been told that Kirzowski had been seriously
injured, she had prepared herself, braced herself for a terrible
shock. Would he still be recognizable? Would he be fully
conscious? Would this visit be more than a formal courtesy call?
The answers to these questions were given by Kirzowski himself as
they entered the room. The man was sitting in a comfortable chair
next to the window, leafing through a stack of papers on his lap.
As they filed into the room he greeted them with mock©solemn
words:
   "How very nice to see you all in good health. Especially
you, miss Raythan." He shot her a gleeful little smile, put the
stack of papers onto a table next to him.
      "Afternoon, Gene," Denise said, "you seem to be doing just
fine."
 "Had you expected anything else?"
      "No, of course not. But I have the feeling that Cynthia here
did, judging from her astounded looks."
        "Well, actually," Gene said, "that's one of the reasons why
I asked for her to come along. There were a few things that I
would like to drive home, things that I thought she didn't yet
understand properly." He shot a glance at Cynthia, returned his
gaze to Denise, and added in a pressed voice:
  "I suppose you have business to attend to? I suggest you
deal with it first and leave us alone for a few minutes so that
we can discuss these matters in private. That okay with you?"
  Denise exchanged a few quick glances with the other two men,
who had remained silent up to now, and then said, "No problem."
As they made their way back outside Denise looked over her
shoulder at him and said, "Enjoy these precious moments, Gene.
Maybe they'll be few and far between." Gene didn't bother to
comment.
       "Well," he said, as they were alone at last, "I suppose this
isn't quite what you expected?" The gleeful grin was back all of
a sudden.
      "Not quite," she acknowledged. "I'd been told you had been
seriously injured, so I had presumed©©" She let her voice trail
off, gesticulated vaguely, groping for the right words.
       "You had expected a living wreck, right? A corpse, hooked up
to some elaborate rig keeping it alive artificially? Something
barely recognizable as the old Gene Kirzowski? Am I right? Of
course I am, and that shows that you're still not fully aware of
what our bio©products can do."
 "I had gathered as much by now," she said. "I did know about
them, only I wasn't aware of the speed they enabled the users to
recover with. I was quite taken by surprise."
  "Surprise was written all over your face," he said. "Let me
tell you, I was pretty much beaten up and bleeding heavily. I
needed hours of surgery. My life has never been in danger though,
even in the old days I would have survived. But, and this is the
issue I would like to draw your attention to, state of the art
biotechnology has provided us with fast and easily cloned
organs, tailored to specific instructions, and with fast tissue
healing and regeneration, not to mention user©friendly cyborg
implementation methods. Look at me. Isn't it amazing?"
 "Yes, of course. But so are Alan Lundlow's eyes."
      "Aw, yes, that's the fun part. Why wait to fool around with
your body till they've clubbed you over the head?"
     "As long as you can pay for it. Which most of us can't." She
felt her self©control slipping, breathed heavily, managed to get
her rising anger in check.
     "Well, that's life. You'll have to accept that. Anyhow,
you're on the right side now, aren't you? So why should you
worry? The moment you joined us you left the recession behind and
the misery of Nowhere City. You have a future now, don't forget
that."
 "You're absolutely right," she managed to say. It took her
considerable effort to get these words out in a normal tone of
voice. She hoped he would change the subject; this conversation
was veering into dangerous territory. He seemed to have sensed
that much too.
 "You know why I got into trouble in the first place?" he
asked, his voice toned down to a restful level now.
    "You came to see me," she said. "Only you weren't too
familiar with the neighborhood."
       "No, I guess I wasn't. And we got mugged, as perhaps we
should have expected. But then again, that's not the kind of
thing I happen to be afraid of. I knew very well that as long as
I made it back alive I would be patched up in a matter of days
thanks to the biotech stuff at our disposal over here. I knew
very well right from the start that there was a definite risk
involved, but I was willing to pay that price to get to you."
  Gene chuckled, leaned back in his chair.
       "You know, I like you, Cynthia. You're something special,
you're so fresh, so totally different from the rest of us. I must
say I find you quite fascinating. There's this wild streak in
you, rebellion always boiling under the surface, barely kept
under control, constantly threatening to burst loose. Don't deny
it. Anyway, I don't disapprove of it. I would even like to get to
know this aspect of you better. May I ask a personal question?
Were you planning to stay in the area where you're living now?
Hadn't you envisaged to move into a more decent place? Well,
consider this offer : I'd like you to move in with me. I really
do. No need to accept or decline now. Think about it. Think
about all the advantages of new©life. You've only seen some
random examples of it, but once you'll get used to it you won't
be able to do without anymore. It's the ultimate freedom, the
liberation from everything you used to be stuck with for life.
You wanna change eyes? Your face? Your heart? Reshape your
features? Or go for something really radical, like©©"
  "I'm getting the picture," she said quickly. You filthy son
of a bitch, she thought. Who do you think I am? But of course
there was no way she could tell him to go to hell. As a matter of
fact, there was little she could say right now without ruining
her life. So she opted for, "I'll think about it. I really will."
      "Fine," he said. "I'm sure you'll make the right decision.
Well, I guess our colleagues are about to get back here by now."
He pressed a button on a tiny console next to the bed, reclined
back in his seat.
      "If you'll excuse me," she said, "I have to go to the
ladies' room. I'll be back in a minute."
       "Down the corridor," he said. "You'll find it."
        She left the room, glad and relieved to be alone for a short
time. She strode down the corridor, fled into the ladies' room
and splashed some cold water against her face. She looked into
the mirror, stared straight into her own eyes. Just imagine, she
thought, staring into a different pair of eyes sometime in the
future. That wouldn't simply mean changing eyes. It would mean
giving in to this whole set of attitudes known as new©life and
everything it stood for. And she wasn't too sure new©life was her
kind of thing, as far as she was familiar with it. She was
however going to get more familiar with it, would be given the
chance to observe new©life from within, and that just might alter
her perspective on things. On the other hand, it might equally
well enhance her distrust and her revulsion. There was little
else to do but to wait and see and take things as they came. Of
one thing she was already sure, though : she wouldn't allow
Kirzowski to have his way with her life. She had accepted a job,
not an offer to have her life and personality revamped. It would
soon become clear if her employers shared this opinion of hers.
        She left the ladies' room and as she found herself back in
the corridor an idea struck her. What if she went the other way,
just out of curiosity? Exploring part of this hospital might be a
good idea. Maybe there was a whole lot of interesting discoveries
to be made here. She could always pretend she had gotten lost
while trying to get back to Kirzowski's room if she ran into
guards or security personnel. She liked the idea and strode off
down the corridor. At the end she ran into some hospital
personnel who ignored her, which meant that her presence here
didn't arouse any suspicion. At the following intersection of
corridors she noticed three elevators and a staircase. She
quickly went up a flight of stairs, briskly walked down a few
other corridors, went up more stairs and continued on till she
had reached another section of the hospital. She had encountered
several people who hadn't reacted in an unusual way, meaning that
she was still in a section where visitors weren't considered
dangerous.
     She knew this was no longer true as she went through a
number of doors with signs reading "Restricted Area" on them. She
went on all the same, but now she was on her guard. Each time she
heard voices or footsteps she tried to be out of sight by darting
into a side corridor, a doorway, the ladies' room or anything
else that happened to be there at the right moment. At one such
occasion she took refuge in an unused room of which the door was
open. As she waited till a group of three people had disappeared
down the other end of the corridor, she looked outside the window
which presented a view of the hospital's inner structure.
      As the sound of footsteps and voices diminished another
sound became audible and quickly drowned all the others. It was
the familiar chop©chop©chop of a helicopter, losing altitude and
probably preparing to touch down on one of the landing pads
scattered all over the hospital area. As she gazed out of the
window she saw the chopper arc slowly through the air, hover
above one of the pads nearby and lower itself onto the pad. A
number of people clad in white came running to the chopper, as
the pilot and a few paramedics jumped onto the ground, shouting
words she couldn't understand from this distance. She watched in
fascination as a number of injured people were carried away on
stretchers into the hospital. What struck her most was that the
paramedics as well as the pilot were wearing military uniforms.
That could only mean that the victims were military personnel
too.
   But this was no military hospital. And she couldn't see any
reason why injured soldiers would be brought here. Of course
there might be a lot of things she didn't know about this place.
Or for that matter about the military operation in question. She
would definitely try to find out more about this fact. So it had
been a good idea after all to take a look around here. Now if
only she could get back unnoticed.
     Her survival experience in Nowhere City had provided her
with the proper skills to steal through this place without
attracting undue attention. There was also the fact that this
hospital wasn't open to the general public. Anyone inside it was
by definition authorized to be there. That would explain why
there was only security personnel outside to keep onlookers out.
Inside there was little or no reason for a massive security
force.
 As she finally got back into Kirzowski's room where the
three others had by now returned to she only had to account for
the long time she had been away.
       "Ik took me some time," she said. "I got lost, but
fortunately a nurse directed me back here. There was no need to
worry."
        "That's just fine," Gene said. They discussed some more
topics of a very general nature, but Cynthia understood that the
really important things had already been said, between Gene and
her as well as between Gene and Denise. She had no clue as to
what role the two other guys had played. Probably they had been
here for the business that had been conducted while she was alone
with Gene. Anyway the rest of the conversation didn't yield any
interesting bits of information anymore. She was glad when they
finally returned to the I©Site for a brief brainstorming session
with Alan Lundlow that was to form the basis of her VRT
storyline.
     That night, back home, she switched on her old TV©set for
the news bulletin with renewed interest. At first the war reports
seemed to differ in no respect at all from previous ones in their
vagueness and their sensationalism. Reporters tended to speak in
frantic tones without saying much. It was hard to get a clear
picture of the facts as the news was interspersed with
commercials, usually from advertisers too small to invest in
glossy but expensive VRTs. Virtual reality technology had caused
a substantial drop in TV advertising rates, without therefore
improving the quality of what was being shown on the screen. But
then TV was a rapidly dwindling industry, and few people seemed
to care how it fared.
  A haggard looking reporter, gripping the microphone as if
his life depended on holding on to it, exclaimed in a high
pitched tone, "We managed to get some sensational footage which
will change your outlook on this war. Brace yourselves! Images of
this nature have never been shown before, making this a
sensational revelation! Moreover these are very very recent
images, so you'll get the chance to see, to really see what is
happening over there in the war zone right now, and I mean at
this very moment!"
     As usual the sensational part was mainly to be found in the
reporter's words. The images that followed were of a
disappointingly poor quality. The camera was constantly waving
back and forth, tilting in curious angles, zooming into a
particular feature without ever properly focussing onto it, then
swinging back to another part of the junglescape. The overall
picture she got was blurred, vague, a succession of fleeting
views of mist©enshrouded foliage through which darker hued
figures seemed to be slipping. It was impossible to make out any
details : who those people were (our boys? the enemy? perhaps
transformed jungle inhabitants?), what activities were being
carried out (armed combat? training routine? random movements of
unidentified jungle dwellers?), what the allegedly transformed
jungle looked like (were those the changed plant life©forms? or
perhaps changed animals creeping around?), or even how the war
was progressing (supposing that it was).
      Another commercial followed, and then the newscaster
announced an exclusive interview with War Force officer Jeff
DuChesne, chief commander of Harare Base, one of the bases at the
rim of the Afflicted Area. Cynthia leaned closer, hoping this
feature would yield some more substantial information.
 "How are things going, commander?" the invisible interviewer
was asking. "We're getting reports that we're on the verge of a
major breakthrough."
   "Those aren't just rumors," DuChesne declared, "we've
recently made progress at a downright stunning rate, and the
resistance is growing weaker and weaker every day. They're
simply no match to us. Of course they're poorly organized,
they're using obsolete equipment and they're having considerable
problems with their food and arms supply. As these problems are
likely to increase in the days to come our chances of a major
victory are increasing accordingly."
   "Does this mean the end of this war is finally in sight?"
      "No, of course not. This is but one battle in a multiªfaceted war, but I believe our upcoming success here is
representative for the entire military operation that is being
carried out here all over the Afflicted Area. Our job here isn't
done yet, but we are making considerable progress and we intend
to continue with unfailing commitment on this path that will
ultimately lead us to a shining victory."
      "Im sure we'll hear more from you in due course," the
reporter said, and the grimacing image of DuChesne, cold hard
stare right into the camera, eyes glinting in the glare of the
crew's lighting rig, tiny beads of sweat clearly visible on his
face, was quickly replaced by another commercial, after which the
newscaster turned his attention to matters of local interest
only. Cynthia switched off the set in dismay.
  It had struck her once more how little had been said. It
took those people several minutes to issue forth a stream of
sentences that ultimately conveyed nothing at all. If anything
their words were supposed to have a comforting effect. Everything
was just fine, but they would be quite busy for a while. Nothing
to worry about. And she knew very well that when you were told
that there was nothing to worry about then it was usually high
time you started worrying. Why did they go to such lengths to
avoid giving them some solid information? The footage that had
been shown was actually a perfect illustration of the empty words
that accompanied them : they showed nothing at all. That meant
that either there was nothing to see or that they weren't
supposed to see what was going on out there. She couldn't imagine
there was nothing interesting to tell or show about the war zone.
She was sure they were deprived of some vital information and she
didn't like it one bit.
        There had to be a way to find out more about the war and
everything connected to it. How did the transport of injured
troopers she had observed tie into this situation? Would her job
at Eyescape Inc. provide her with the opportunity to find out
more about all this? Or perhaps her relations with Gene Kirzowski
and others? She would see what she could do.




7

   "Well, Jim, whaddaya say?"
     Reicher halted for a moment, let his gaze roam around the
foliage around them, dense in certain spots, elsewhere thin and
allowing shafts of harsh sunlight to beat down upon them. He was
no botanist, of course, but there was nothing here that struck
him as odd or unusual, let alone radically different from what
could have been expected.
      "Pretty tame," he said to Frianelli, and resumed his walk
through the jungle, followed by the others.
    "But then this is the rim of the Afflicted Area," Frianelli
commented from behind his back. "So this doesn't prove anything.
Apart from that there's the fact that we're likely to overlook
all but the sensational changes as we're no biologists
specialized in tropical lifeforms."
    "I had gathered that much," Jim said. "What are you trying
to say?"
       "That it's too early to draw any conclusions. We can't say
anything for sure yet."
        "In that case why don't you keep your mouth shut for a
while?"
        A number of the men sniggered, most however ignored their
conversation and concentrated on their surroundings. After all
this was supposed to be a dangerous area, and they were on a
combat mission. At least that much had been made clear during the
long©awaited briefing which had turned out to be a bitter
disappointment for Jim. Of course an explanation had been
offered: the previous night's unforeseen incidents had disrupted
the scheduled course of events. An on©the©spot decision had to
be made, a raid scheduled for the end of the week had been
rescheduled for today. Dos Santos had explained everything in a
briefing session which was "short for obvious reasons. A string
of events at an alarming rate has made it necessary for us to
match its pace, hence this hastily organized and seemingly
haphazard mission. We realize very well," he had insisted, "that
it's a bad thing to be rushed into a mission, but no valid
alternative is open to us. We have to act now and act efficiently
or we risk being annihilated."
 Dos Santos had taken the time however to briefly sketch the
current situation to them. A map of the area had been drawn and
was posted at his right side. "In recent days several small
centers of enemy interest have gathered in the vicinity of
Nairobi Base and have managed to deliver us a firm blow last
night. At this moment a sizable portion of our troops are
fighting this force. Information has reached us recently that
these armed forces have again split up into their constituent
segments, making them at once weaker on their own but harder to
track down. Our men are in the process of annihilating two of
these segments, and in order to put an end to this threat a third
party should do the same with the final segment of this enemy
force. Their current position is here," Dos Santos said,
indicating a spot not too far from Nairobi Base, but further into
the Afflicted Aera. "They are said to be weakened and running
short of supplies. We should have little difficulty in
exterminating them completely. After successful completion of
this mission you are to return to Nairobi Base where normal
proceedings according to our regular schedule will be resumed."
	They had been split up into various groups, each with their
own squad leader, were provided with ammo and survival kits and
had soon set off into the jungle. Jim had avoided eye contact
with Frianelli, who was right behind him. He could guess what the
man was thinking and didn't quite feel like discussing it right
now. He didn't know too well what to think of it himself. Anyhow
there were other and more pressing problems at this moment.
There was an enemy out there bent on their destruction and there
was really no time to gape awe©stricken at the lush foliage that
now formed a virtually impenetrable backdrop on all sides. They
proceeded in silence. Jim hoped that the people at the front knew
where they were heading. He found it impossible to orient himself
here. There were simply no points of reference, which meant that
if ever they would get separated from the rest they would be
totally lost. Of course there was always basic training and
procedures to fall back onto, but that was very much theory that
he had never had to put into practice. Somehow VRT experience had
lost some of its near©authenticity ever since he had set foot in
this steaming jungle. The thought didn't bring much comfort.
   As the foliage became less dense again and they approached
what appeared to be a clearing in the forest Jim felt that battle
could be sparked off any second now. The tension had become
virtually tangible, and apparently he wasn't the only one to have
sensed it. They took cover as the order came, not unexpectedly,
arms held ready, waiting for the commencement of their first
live©action in the War.
        They didn't have to wait long. All at once they saw movement
at the other side of the clearing, and a flurry of hoarse shouts
and gunshots went up. Jim felt more relief than anything else; at
last he found himself back in a familiar situation now. The
training VRTs had at least that much effect on you. The stroll
through the jungle hadn't exactly been a nerve©healing
experience.
    It was hard to catch more than fleeting glimpses of the
enemy, but he could see enough to tell that they were indeed a
motley crew who didn't stand a chance against a well©trained
group of men equipped with MH©38s and wearing protective clothing
that turned out to offer genuine protection as they were happy to
find out. The battle was over in a matter of minutes. Jim could
hardly believe they had done it as they stood in total silence
staring down at the casualties at their feet. Three enemy
soldiers were still alive and taken as POW. There were no losses
on their side. Two people, MacLyle among them, had suffered minor
injuries and one person, a blond giant called VanderMeer, was
heavily sick and was apparently suffering from a mild psychic
shock. Still Jim thought it had been too easy, it couldn't be
true. Life just wasn't like that.
      An inspection of the makeshift enemy base revealed nothing
of any importance. It had clearly been a very temporary job and
had been carried out as sloppily as the rest of the enemy
operations. As they walked among the remains, casting glances all
around, hushed conversations were struck up. Frianelli came up to
him, as had become a habit. Jim didn't mind anymore. He still
didn't like the man, but he had come to know him as dependable
and that was a valuable asset in these circumstances.
  "Look, Jim," Frianelli said. "The jungle's taking over
already again. See that?"
     Jim looked at what the man indicated with his gloved finger.
Tiny greenish rootlets were crawling and creeping all across the
campsite. It was unclear where they were coming from. He could
trace them back to clumps of moss and low bushes and foliage
hanging down low but that still didn't reveal their source. As
they stood watching the rootlets and tendrils continued their
work, a small but steady flow of green and brown covering more
and more territory, multiplying itself at an alarming rate,
generating new strings of offshoots continuously which
immediately set about conquering new territory, wriggling and
coiling and enveloping everything they encountered.
    "Well?" Jim asked. "Would you care to explain?"
        Frianelli shook his head, retreated a few steps as one of
the tendrils crawled around the tip of his boots. "Never said I
had an explanation ready, Jim. I just wanted to draw your
attention to this." He reteated a few more steps, as the tendrils
appeared to be inclined to follow what they had discovered.
    "Very thoughtful of you," Jim replied. "If it hadn't been
for you I'd probably never have noticed."
      "You're turning into a cynic," Frianelli grinned. "Soon
you'll be despised by everyone. You should try to stop this
dreadful process now that it's still possible."
        "That's the first time I get some sound advice from you."
      By now everybody had noticed what was going on, and the
squad leader called for a quick retreat. One of the three POWs
had insisted on their getting out of here. "Can't you see it's
getting unhealthy?" he had erupted when addressed by one of his
captors. His voice had been a rasping shout that ripped apart the
relative stillness of the jungle. Jim for one was glad they could
leave the area. He didn't feel at ease with the rippling carpet
of green and brown strands underfoot.
  There was a different atmosphere as they made their way
back, looser, more relaxed, or perhaps "healthier". For one
thing, it was easier on a strictly physical level, in that their
path had been cleared already and the vegetation hadn't reclaimed
it yet. There was also less tension, as the enemy had been wiped
out, although they still had to maintain standard precautionary
measures. And of course, there was a strong feeling of relief as
their mission had been carried out successfully. That was always
a good way to make your debut. Conversations were again struck up
during their march back.
       "Spooky stuff," Carvalho said to Jim who was walking right
behind him. "And this is only the rim area. Who knows what it's
like deeper down into the heart of this place?"
        "Hard to tell," Jim said. "You can't rely on the rumors
they've been feeding us. Most of those were either over©the©top
sensationalist stuff or the vaguest of news reports. I guess we'd
do better to ignore all that and see for ourselves."
   "They seemed right about the enemy, though. The guys didn't
really put up a fight."
        "True enough."
 "Wait a minute," Frianelli said from behind him. "Don't
judge too fast. Maybe this band was a weakened remnant from a
greater force that may well have been quite impressive. You guys
are drawing too many conclusions based on virtually no evidence.
I say we take this step by little step and eventually we'll get a
full picture of the situation down here."
      "Makes sense," Jim said. Frianelli's critical faculties were
well©developed and maybe that wasn't such a bad thing. "But the
most important aspect is that we've had a terrific moraleªbooster. Don't underestimate its effect. It's been proven on many
occasions that©©"
      He halted in mid©sentence and they stopped dead in their
tracks as one of them, in front of the line, emitted a shrill
shout.
 "Take cover!" someone yelled, and a few other men shrieked
commands they couldn't understand. Something was going on, and it
sure wasn't part of the plan. As they got nearer to one another
in an attempt to adopt battle positions Jim tried to catch some
of the questions and answers that were being thrown back and
forth.
 "It's VanderMeer. He's been hit."
      "Didn't hear any gunshots. Anyway didn't his clothing
protect him?"
  "It was damaged in the fight, ripped in several places."
       "He should've been more careful. He should've realized he
was more vulnerable now."
      "Of course you heard no gunshots. He's been hit by an arrow.
See it sticking out of his arm?"
       "Arrow? You mean there's natives around here?"
 "Ain't no more natives around here. Anybody can use arrows
though."
       "Especially if they don't want to make any noise when
they're attacking."
    "You mean this is an ambush and we walked right into it?"
      "Sure ain't no ticker©tape parade."
    "The guy's in shock."
    "He already was. Guess this won't help him a lot."
     "Who's attacking us?"
  "No way to tell. They're virtually invisible among this
vegetation."
   "So what do we do?"
    "Shoot when you think you see something. Can't think of
another way out."
      More hushed conversations were taking place, and at
irregular intervals rounds of fire were shot. Yet there was
clearly an enemy out there. At one point one of them was brave
enough to rise to his knees to get a better view and a sharpened
stone was shot at him at tremendous speed. It made him topple
backward, but his clothing protected him well enough. The main
problem was that they didn't know who was attacking them and
where the enemy was. Apart from that they were unsure of the
enemy's armament. They had seen an arrow, a stone, and every now
and then a gunshot was heard. When they returned fire they didn't
seem to hit anything, and they saw no movement among the
vegetation or any other useful indications. There was nothing to
do but wait and fire the odd round of ammo at a barely perceived
target. Not a lot of progress was made that way, and more and
more time went by.
     Dusk finally approached and very little had happened on the
positive scale of things. The enemy still hadn't shown his face,
which hadn't kept him however from striking them some serious
blows occasionally. It hadn't been possible to keep track of
everything, but several of their men had been hit, and despite
the protective clothing, even injured or killed. The precise
nature of the injuries and the causes of the casualties, if any,
were as yet unclear.
 At one point Frianelli, who was lying next to him, whispered
into his ear, "Didn't you mention something along the lines of a
morale©booster?"
       "I did," he said. "You can ignore my remarks from now on."
     "I'm glad you share my views."
 "I wanna hear some more about your views. What do we do
now?"
  "Stay put here, try to survive till daybreak. Then we'll see
what we can do. My guess is that the enemy will get tired of this
game and steal away in the night."
     "After killing us all first?"
  "That's a risk we'll have to take. Unless you have any
better suggestions?"
   "Wouldn't count on it." They lapsed back into silence, and
time went slowly by.
   Nightfall quickly turned out to be outright nightmare. The
sounds of enemy fire became more and more infrequent as the night
dragged on. Still they didn't feel any safer, and certainly not
safe enough to try to get away. The fact that they were enveloped
in total darkness wasn't exactly stimulating either. There was a
lot of noise they thought was produced by night animals stalking
the jungle, but none of the creatures got to them, at least as
far as they could tell, and they certainly didn't see any of
them. What they could dimly perceive through the dense foliage
were the glowing spots, not dissimilar from the lizard©like
creature they had spotted in their barracks at Nairobi Base. They
still weren't sure what these were. The darkness lasted only for
a few hours, to be replaced by an eerie spectacle of transformed
jungle lifeforms. All around them the vegetation burst into
fluorescent life. Vines, leaves, trunks and stems emitted faint
glows, with greenish and yellowish hues predominant. The light
wasn't strong enough to provide them with a clear view of their
surroundings, but bright enough to exert an unsettling effect on
them. The intensity of the glowing spots changed continuously.
Some all at once exploded into relative brilliance, then slowly
dimmed into nothingness as the night went on. Other glowing
parts pulsated in a lazy rhythm, with varieties in intensity
alternating with varieties in rhythm. Yet others gradually
changed colors and hues in never©ending cycles. Meanwhile the
fluorescent lizards, or whatever they were, kept climbing and
descending across this dazzling, scintillating backdrop, which
didn't remain the same for a single minute. Although no direct
danger seemed to emanate from it, it didn't bring them peace of
mind either.
   Sleep too turned out to be impossible. Jim and the troopers
close to him tried to install a semblance of a shift routine, but
it was too difficult to get anything working. Their uncomfortable
position, their poor means of communication, the deafening
background noise and the semi©darkness eerily lit by all the
fluorescent creatures and manifestations rendered their case
hopeless. They all had to make do with short periods of slumber
from which they were abruptly jerked away as some animal let
loose a blood©curdling shriek or when a deep rumble rippled
through the jungle. It was at once the most frightening night Jim
had ever had and the most fascinating one.
     Daybreak didn't bring much to rejoice over. It brought a
relative silence, but then again perhaps it was exactly the same
sound level that had seemed to be a lot louder at night. The day
brought some unpleasant revelations : some of them had been
killed, but it wasn't clear by who or what. Some of them were
injured or ill. VanderMeer was very feverish and was raving
constantly, a nerve©racking drone. Two of the POWs had either
managed to escape or had disappeared. One of them was still with
them, glassy©eyed, his face sickly white, muttering
incomprehensible words under his breath. He didn't reply to the
questions they asked him, even seemed hardly aware of them. Some
of their own men had disappeared as well. The nature of their
disappearance was unclear : had they ventured into the jungle on
their own in the heat of the night? Had they been killed and
dragged away? Had they been captured by the enemy? Or were they
devoured by predators? There were no indications whatsoever.
There was one more pleasant revelation : the enemy was no longer
there. For whatever reason, the fifteen of them that were left
had been spared.
       One of the casualties was their squad leader.
  "We need a new leader," Jim pointed out. "Walking around
here as a disorganized bunch of troopers doesn't make a whole lot
of sense to me. Any suggestions?"
      "Any volunteers?" Carvalho replied.
    "What about me?" Jim said. He had been planning to take
command as soon as he'd seen the dead squad leader. Somehow it
had come natural to him. What a way to become aware of the fact
that you're a born leader, he thought grimly. "Any objections?"
There were none, to his surprise and pleasure.
 "Well, Jim," Frianelli said. "What do we do?"
  "We go back to Nairobi Base as fast we can."
  "We leave them here?" MacLyle asked, pointing at the
corpses. Some of these looked like typical battlefield victims,
slumped down in awkward angles, limbs flung wide, faces contorted
with terror or rigid with despair. Others appeared to be
entangled in strands and clumps or vegetation and looked as if
they had suffocated, strangled to death, deprived of life in
surreptitious ways. The sight sent shivers down their spines.
  "We take them with us," Jim said.
      "They'll slow us down. We'll stand a better chance of making
it without them. What's the use anyway?"
       "We'll have them examined at the Base. We'll have to find
out who or what killed them. That may help us in our fight
against this enemy. The more we know about him the better."
    "You got a point there," MacLyle conceded. Frianelli
contributed some points as well:
       "We better get moving. This ain't no safe place. The faster
we move out of here©©" His voice trailed off. He waved about his
gloved hands, encompassing the jungle all around them.
 "Right," Jim said. "Pick 'em up. And if necessary, help the
injured guys along. Will you manage on your own?" He had
addressed VanderMeer, who vaguely nodded approvingly but kept on
raving deliriously. The sole POW left also indicated he was
willing to follow them. "Staying behind unhealthy," he muttered.
Nobody asked him to elaborate on this theory.
  They got off toward Nairobi Base in sullen silence. To their
relief the enemy didn't bother them anymore, and they were able
to cover the distance in a reasonable time.
    As they finally arrived at their destination relief quickly
made way for horror and despair as they saw the surprise Nairobi
Base had in store for them. The Base was deserted and almost
completely destroyed. The fatal blow must have been struck
without warning and with immediate success during the relatively
short time of their mission. They all looked at Jim expectantly.
       "Follow me," he managed to say feebly. "We're moving in
regardless. At best we'll stay here temporarily. Right now there
is no valid alternative. Come on." The line of men followed right
behind him into the shambles that used to be Nairobi Base. They
remained silent as if ordered to; the shock had been that
severe, had struck deeply into their already battered souls.
   A quick inspection of the Base revealed that there was no
imminent danger. It was totally deserted and would be a safe
haven for them, for the time being at least. Their stay would
have to be limited for a variety of reasons. For one thing,
whoever had destroyed the Base had done a thorough job. There
wasn't any equipment left which was even only partially
functioning. Communication with other Bases was impossible.
Food, water and ammunition supplies had been taken away. Energy
and electricity could no longer be generated. Most buildings and
barracks had been damaged to the extent that they could only
serve as makeshift shelter for the night. The chopper landing
pads had been rendered useless.
        Maybe, Jim thought as his men had taken refuge in one of the
least destroyed buildings, I shouldn't have taken command so
rashly. Now they'll expect me to deal with a situation that is a
lot more serious than I could possibly have imagined. But then
again, if I bow out of these responsabilities, who will follow in
my footsteps and bring this to a satisfying end? So ultimately
it was perhaps a good thing he had volunteered for leadership. No
doubt time would tell. Time always did.



8

 "Hear that, Riff?"
     Riff merely nodded, scanned the sky, then pointed his
finger. "Coming this way, Marshall. Better get ready."
 Marshall Stack looked in the indicated direction, but as he
wanted to say something Riff made a cutting hand movement and the
man swallowed whatever he had wanted to say. A smile appeared on
Riff's face as his predictions were confirmed.
 "Real bad sound, Marshall. Real bad. They won't make it, I
can tell. This baby's gonna be ours with a bit of luck." In
recent times they had heard and seen a fair number of choppers
pass overhead this part of Nowhere City on their way to the city
center, and they had grown familiar with the sound of the
engines of these giant helicopters. This one, however, hadn't
sounded right as soon as the sound had registered in their ears.
It wasn't so much a different sound, but rather the fact that it
was irregular had struck them. The engine wasn't running
smoothly. And that meant trouble, but not for them.
    As the chopper came into full view it became clear that it
was in serious trouble. Puffs of black and greyish smoke trailed
behind it, and the engines' sound grew more and more erratic. By
now Axe and Jigsaw had joined them. All of them peered at the
giant insect coming in, its engines finally faltering.
 "Come on," Axe said. "Make our day."
  "It's coming down," Riff said. "Emergency landing. Right in
our lap. Ain't that a swell idea, guys?"
       "Nice of them to do us a favor. Will we give them a warm
welcome?" Axe smiled her most unsettling of smiles.
    "You bet," Riff said. "Come on. Figure out where they're
likely to touch down, and be there as they hit the ground. We
better make sure we have a front row seat."
    They got up and went for the likely touchdown area, ready as
usual to take what came in their direction. This was how Nowhere
City worked, and visitors, unwilling or not, would have to live
by these rules. Riff knew that being fast wouldn't do. Other
people had eyes and ears too and would by now also be on their
way. But then that was life. You accepted the fact that you
never got the whole cake, but that shouldn't keep you from
angling for as big a piece of the cake as possible.
    Their estimate had been correct © but then so had a lot of
other people's, as a whole flock of scavengers and onlookers had
gathered where they had guessed the chopper would come down. Riff
told his friend to move back, to their surprise, as the
helicopter was about to land.
  "What's the matter, Riff?" Axe asked, incomprehending. "You
quitting? Something wrong?"
    Riff nodded. "Don't feel right. Don't ask me what it is, but
something ain't right. I can feel it."
 "So what do we do?" The others exchanged glances, were
growing restless, uncertain whether they should follow Riff's
orders or their instincts. Strong as these instincts were, they
opted for Riff's proven track record of survival and retreated
into a portico from where they could overlook anything that
happened in relative safety. They hoped they wouldn't have to
leave empty©handed, but when Riff had some doubts there usually
was a reason. They waited and watched attentively.
     The helicopter had touched down by now. The engines had been
turned off, but still a fair bit of noise was produced, and black
smoke was still billowing up from various spots. Some of the
onlookers retreated a few steps, others came near to take a
closer look. Most of these chose to withdraw too when the pilot
and a few paramedics jumped out of the cabin, all of them armed.
The pilot wore a military uniform.
     The crowd retreated further, as if obeying an unheard
command. It soon became clear they weren't giving up but rather
changing strategy as some nightmare creatures and a burning man,
writhing and struggling in his cloak of flames, advanced towards
the baffled men. They opened fire on the creatures, and as they
saw that bullets had no effect whatsoever they quickly recognized
the holos for what they were and ignored them. The burning man
lumbered straight through one of the paramedics who didn't even
flinch, as if he were used to this kind of behavior from his
fellow men. These guys were apparently well©trained military
types, taught to adapt quickly to new conditions, however radical
or unsettling these were. So things wouldn't be all that easy.
Maybe Riff had been right after all.
   The pilot waved about his gun, shouted at the top of his
lungs, "What's going on here? What are you guys trying to do?
This is an emergency situation. I want all of you to leave the
area immediately. Go back! Now!" He fired over their heads, and
the crowd retreated a few more steps, hesitatingly. In the
meantime another batch of holo creatures had walked and crawled
unhindered through them and the helicopter. So the pilot didn't
pay too much attention to a cyberpet creeping up to him. He found
out too late this one was very much a real construct. The
paramedics watched in horror as the pilot was ripped apart by the
metal jaws and steel teeth, crying his lungs out, thrashing madly
about, collapsing in a pool of blood. They fired round upon round
of bullets at the cyberpet, but its job had been done.
 More creatures advanced towards them, but now they were no
longer sure which were harmless holos and which were dangerous
killers, so they fired at all of them and tried to dodge all of
them. As more and more of the creatures were unleashed this
strategy proved unworkable, but the paramedics realized too late
their cause was lost by now. The three of them had separated and
no longer had their chopper behind them. This vulnerable position
proved fatal to them. Within a few minutes all three of them
succumbed to either killer cyberpets or human attackers. The
area was clear, and the crowd surged forward.
  But still Riff had his doubts. "We're moving in," he said,
"but be careful. Let the others go about. Watch and look. I don't
trust it. Don't think it's safe."
      Much as they were eager to go and loot, they accepted Riff's
directions. It had proven wise to do so on many occasions in the
past, and there was no reason to believe this occasion was an
exception. The rest of the crowd had no Riff to hold them back,
however, and merrily went ahead on their looting spree.
        Activity around the chopper quickly became hectic. Riff's
troupe thought they understood now why their leader had ordered
them to wait. A purring sound still emanated from the engines,
and occasionally puffs of greyish and black smoke were spewed
into the air. A fair number of the scavengers seemed to be
doubtful and had come nearby without however entering the
chopper. Some were brave or foolish enough not to be deterred by
anything and boldly ventured inside, immediately starting their
disassembling job, like locusts pillaging the crops.
   As they came clambering back out, carrying armsful of
equipment and parts and anything that seemed worth the trouble of
taking along, Axe and Jigsaw cast inquiring glances at Riff, but
he firmly shook his head.
      "Hey, what's that," Marshall Stack whispered, as he saw some
bodies being dragged out.
      "Time to move," Riff finally said. "Look at those bodies.
Ignore all the rest, take a real good look at them."
   "Looks like total death to me," Axe said, squinting. They
slowly picked their way towards the chopper, which appeared to be
as if under siege by a colony of ants crawling all over it. The
bodies turned out to be injured soldiers, probably on their way
to a city center hospital, a destiny they would now never reach.
They had been dragged away and put down some way off on the
sidewalk. Most of the scavengers didn't pay too much attention to
them. One of the soldiers appeared to be dead, or at least
comatose. Another had struggled up to his knees, leaned clumsily
against a wall, and was rambling feverishly, uttering a string of
incomprehensible words and groans and mutterings. The deranged
look in his eyes was a whole lot more eloquent.
        "Look at those two," Riff said, pointing at a couple of
bodies which had attracted his interest. They all gazed at the
two soldiers, lying motionless on the pavement. "Something's
eating them. Look."
   Riff couldn't possibly be serious, although the soldiers
were mutilated in a way they had never witnessed before. One of
them was covered with a film of moss©like vegetation, which
seemed to emit a faint glow and pulsated regularly as if it was a
living structure. The soldier's face was unrecognizable, his
features were warped, ripped apart, dehumanized. The second
soldier appeared to be encrusted or enveloped by a web of
tendrils or vines or root©like organisms, which were in constant
movement. There was no doubt in their minds that this was a lifeªform of some sort. The second body was swollen out of proportion,
as if ready to explode. It didn't lay still for a second, and the
wriggling and creeping mass all over it turned it into a
nightmare come true.
   "What the hell is this?" Axe asked, at once appalled and
fascinated by the sight of these hulks which were no longer human
to her eyes.
   "Wrong question," Riff replied. "You should ask instead, Can
we sell this? Does this have any value? My guess is that it has.
This has got tremendous worth. Forget the chopper and its bits
and pieces, this is our big thing." He stared at the bodies in
awe and wonder, greed in his eyes. As some of the tendrils
ventured off the body and started encircling Riff's boot tip he
shook them loose, not without some difficulty, and took a few
steps back.
    "Suckers have got good taste," he chuckled.
    "These guys must be victims of some biological weapon,"
Jigsaw said.
   "They can be anything," Riff replied. "Victims, guinea pigs,
innocent bystanders, or just plain fools. Only sure thing is that
they've been in deep contact with that transforming thing back in
the war zone. Don't ask me how or why. Whatever they are, they're
valuable property, which is what matters to us."
       "So we take 'em with us?"
      "Yeah, but asking them to stroll back along with us won't
make a big impression. You Marshall and Axe go get something to
carry these corpses with. And real fast." The twosome hurried
off. Riff and Jigsaw remained to keep an eye on their loot, and
kept watching the by now frantic activity around the chopper.
Most of the onlookers had joined the scavengers and were swarming
all over the place. Greed had swept away fear entirely.
        "Look," Jigsaw said, pointing at a spot over at the other
side of the street, where a handful of people stood watching the
proceedings from a safe distance, just like them. "Ain't that the
girl you talked about?"
        Riff narrowed his eyes, peered in the indicated direction.
"Sure enough, that's her. Name's Cynthia. I've kept an eye on
her."
  "What for?"
    "She no longer works in her apartment, but in the Center.
That means her place is open for inspection. I've thought about
taking a look. Might be worthwhile." Riff shifted his gaze back
to the chopper. "Something's wrong there." They exchanged looks,
stared at whas was going down among the seething mass of
scavengers. The faint sound still emanating from the helicopter
all at once turned into a shrill whine, and smoke appeared from a
variety of outlets. It didn't seem to deter the shoppers much.
 "It's clear to me now," Riff said, nodding. "It's gonna blow
up. I felt it coming. Take cover."
    There were several minor explosions in rapid succession
rather than one big blockbusting bang. It made for a visual
spectacle of inferior quality, but the destruction it caused
wasn't any less thorough. To their satisfaction Riff and Jigsaw
found they were out of range of the debris being thrown around in
all directions. The only part of them that suffered was their
eardrums. The two soldiers didn't seem to notice anything. The
enveloped one stirred and trembled a bit, but maybe that was
merely a reaction to the shockwave which fortunately hadn't been
all that massive, as far as their knowledge of shockwaves went.
        A wide grin appeared on Riff's face as he let his gaze roam
about the scene of destruction.
        "Look," he said to the equally enraptured man next to him,
"ain't that wonderful? The colors! Fires and smoke and raining
debris. And over there, that's real awesome!"
  Jigsaw looked at what Riff had singled out for his special
attention. Among the smoldering remains of the helicopter, (some
of the biggest humps still producing columns of black smoke, most
of its smaller fragments engulfed in flames), among the mutilated
and charred bodies strewn on the scene of the blowup, among the
less seriously injured crawling and stumbling and staggering to a
place of greater safety, crying and groaning in pain and agony,
among all the props in this sick theater play being put on here
Riff had spotted some burning men, shrouded in cloaks of fire. As
some of the holos were still operative, and strolling in their
unperturbed way through this inferno, it was at times impossible
to distinguish the real burning men from the holographic ones,
and Riff thought this a stimulating and invigorating experience.
The burning man holo was a recently developed concept and could
be seen in this part of town with increasing frequency. Most of
them were slightly different variations on the same theme, so
probably they were all based on the same guy's creation. The
funny thing was, Riff now thought, that there was hardly any
difference in outlook and behavior between the holos and the real
thing. This aspect gave the whole scene a striking beauty that
somehow touched him deeply. The sad thing was that the real
burning men were so ephemerous. They quickly fell down to the
pavement and burned up to a lifeless heap of cinders. By and
large Riff preferred the holo versions. Somehow they suited their
surroundings better, looked better equipped to function in this
environment so hostile to traditional old©style flesh©and©blood
life.
  "Cute," Jigsaw said, nodding in appreciation. "They should
do this more often."
   "Glad to see you're a man with good taste," Riff said. "By
the way, there they are." Axe and Marshall Stack were coming up
behind them, carrying a makeshift stretcher wide and hopefully
strong enough to carry the two soldiers © or however they should
be labeled in view of their present condition. As Axe glanced at
the battlefield some way off she asked Riff, "Are you alright?"
        "No, we were killed in the blast," he said.
    "You don't look any more dead than you used to."
       "That's my way of staying alive. Come on, let's move the
buggers."
      The two soldiers were hoisted onto the stretcher and carried
off to their quarters, not without a full series of grunts and
panting and swearing. Still, they all realized they may well have
struck serious paydirt here, and that realization always tended
to ease the pain. Usually, however, there was too much pain and
not enough pay. If these poor devils could change that situation
they would gladly sink to their knees and kiss the creepyªcrawling tendrils now beginning to dangle from the stretcher.



Ã **Ã9

    At least I'm working again, she thought as she was escorted
to the Molinari Restaurant where she was to have lunch with
Jordan Haggles. Eyescape Inc.'s Number One had expressed the
wish to see her and talk about her work. Already? she had
wondered. I've barely started work on the damn thing.
  "Why at this ultra©posh restaurant?" she had asked Denise.
"Why not in his office?" She didn't like the idea of facing the
man in a place utterly alien to her. Food was already being
rationed in Nowhere City, and here she was, out to lunch in a
ridiculously high©priced place with a man she by all accounts was
bound to find totally despicable. Denise had chuckled, contempt
in her eyes.
   "Let's put it this way. If Jordan Haggles has an office,
it's his exclusive table at Molinari's. Now there is a room here
labeled Haggles' office, but he can only be found here on those
very rare occasions when he's not at Molinari's. Do you
understand?"
   "Not quite," she had said. "Is the man manacled to his table
or something?"
 "In a certain sense he is," Denise had answered, the chuckle
still going strong. "Don't worry about it. Everything will become
clear soon. You'll love him, I'm positive about that. And, one
more thing : Mr. Haggles has a healthy appetite. I'm sure you'll
find it quite stimulating."
    Cynthia wasn't sure what that final remark meant, but she
would no doubt find out. She was glad Denise and Alan were quite
enthusiastic about the rough storyline she had proposed, the
wealth of tiny but important details she had worked out, and they
had applauded her tentative title for the new VRT, "The Ship That
Launched A Thousand Faces". Surely this lunch with Jordan Haggles
couldn't possibly be a painful anti©climax.
    She had expected Molinari's to be a giant piece of
architecture, a towering structure of overwhelming grandeur and
awe©inspiring splendor, but this time her guess had been way offªtarget. The restaurant was quite small and fairly inconspicuous,
intimately tucked away among clumps of colorful vegetation, in
stark contrast with the rather arid cityscape all around it.
Surprisingly enough she didn't spot any armed guards in the area.
That could either mean that these were hidden well out of sight
or that they weren't necessary. Somehow she couldn't accept the
latter, even though the City Center was a relatively safe place
to her standards.
      Her identity was quickly and unobtrusively checked at the
entrance of Molinari's by a man who could either be a waiter
dressed up as a security guard or vice versa. "You are expected,"
he said in an emotionless tone of voice. "Please follow me."
   Molinari's place was perhaps toned©down in its outward
appearance, inside it was the epitome of new©lifers' opulence and
excessive wealth. Most of the interior seemed to consist of
moving parts, totally computerized, constantly and slowly being
changed and rearranged, a continuous landscaping process
conceived with the idea in mind that the interior should never be
the same, however long you chose to stay in here. And some
apparently spent quite a bit of their waking moments in here. An
elaborate lighting rig was also constantly reshaping itself in
synchronization with the interior landscaping process, lighting
every part of the restaurant from a different angle and in
different colors and hues and intensities as time went by. It
made quite an impression on her, she being a visually oriented
artist, and more so because this was a totally new experience to
her. Nowhere City didn't exactly abound with this type of
exclusive places. It felt like one of those artsy VRTs to her,
too refined and delicately executed to be true.
        As they wound their way towards Haggles' private table she
noticed several people, customers rather than restaurant
personnel judging from their informal dress, plugged into VRT
rigs in discreetly lit corners and recesses. What were these guys
up to? she wondered. Did some people perhaps plug in between
courses? She knew about VRT overindulgence, about people spending
most of their leisure time plugged in, some ending up addicted to
the damn trips and spending just enough time outside VRTs to
survive. There had been cases of VRT junkies ending up as
plugged©in corpses. What a terrible way to die, she thought, not
knowing if you're really dead or if it's all part of the trip.
 They finally arrived at Haggles' table, and her escort bowed
and quickly made his way back. She had expected a monster, an
instant revulsion©generating creature, but on first sight Haggles
didn't look all that weird. Actually, he looked quite normal as
new©lifers went. He did have a paunch of stunning proportions,
but then that had never been unusual among certain types of
people. She tried her best to look unprejudiced and flashed him a
bright smile as she was about to take her seat opposite him.
   "Miss Cynthia Raythan, I presume," a smug voice addressed
her. "Please take your seat. I feel privileged to be in your
presence."
     I wish I could say the same about you, she thought as she
focussed her eyes on Jordan Haggles. So this the man. This is the
guy calling the shots. Perched here at his own private table,
with no other customers in sight, thanks to the clever
landscaping computer's programming which had no doubt been
tailored to Haggles' wishes. This was the kind of customer whose
every whim was unquestioningly attended to. Probably a good deal
of what she saw around here had been paid with his money.
      "Nice to meet you, Mr. Haggles," she said in as neutral a
tone as possible.
      "Well, what would you like for starters?" he asked, all
smiles. "May I recommend the toast hawaienne? It's utterly
delicious. And I should know, I've tried it so many times I lost
count." The smile intensified, and she thought it wiser to accept
his recommendation.
    "Seems like an excellent suggestion," she said, and Haggles
nodded appreciatively, pulled a keyboard towards him and tapped a
key sequence. She wondered if every customer could enter his
orders directly into the kitchen computer or if this was another
of Haggles exclusive privileges.
       "Well, young lady," he said, reclining comfortably in his
chair, "I've been told you've come up with some really bright
ideas for us, so let's hear them." He steepled his fingers
together on the table in front of him, looked her expectantly in
the eyes.
      "I must confess I selected the story type with several
aspects of this business in mind. For one thing, I wanted to do
something at which I excel, something for which I can rely on
past experience. That's the best way to guarantee top©quality
results. Furthermore I wanted something of epic proportions,
something the user can really sink his teeth into, get totally
engrossed in. So I decided to really go for the no©holds©barred
approach and come up with something devastating."
      "Keep talking like that. You sound dedicated, purposeful,
eager to achieve something new and groundbreaking, to take things
just that much further. The quantum leap approach, know what I
mean? I like that in the women I work with. Ah, at last, our
orders."
       Cynthia looked up as a four©armed waiter silently
approached, gracefully put down the dishes in front of them and
disappeared. Haggles attacked the toast hawaienne voraciously, as
if he hadn't eaten in weeks. He had finished before she was
halfway through.
       "You may have been told about some of the bio©surgery I've
had done," he said, stating it rather than asking her about it.
"You see, I'd had this reinforced extra©large stomach installed
able to take in more food than the average human needs or is
physically able to take in. It soon turned out that didn't do the
job I was aiming for. You just can't go on eating, however large
your stomach. Your body can't handle food beyond a certain limit,
you know. So I had to look for another way. You finished? Would
you care for soup? I can recommend the 'crááme alsacienne'.
Absolutely wonderful. Your palate will never be the same again.
That alright with you?"
        Of course it was. Who would dare to thwart Haggles in his
selection of gourmet food? The man tapped some more keys,
reclined again, said, "So what's your basic story©line then? Can
you give me a rough outline?"
  "Well, basically it's a futuristic space©oriented story.
There's this alien spaceship cruising through the interstellar
void on its way to earth, and©©"
       "Wait a minute. Didn't you include this part because it
allows you to design all these flashy backdrops and alien scenery
and stuff? Wasn't that one of the things you're famous for?"
   "Sure enough. As I said, I tend to aim for the things I do
best."
 "So do I : there's the soup I've ordered for us." Once again
Haggles had finished before she had barely gotten started. "As I
said," he continued as she was working her way through her soup,
"I had to solve this food take©in problem. We tried out several
options, but then ultimately settled for what they labeled food
treatment chambers. These are artificial organs, where food is
automatically transferred to and broken down without however
entering the metabolism, as soon as a certain level of food
intake has been reached, the level at which a normal human being
can simply no longer eat. The stomach is bypassed, so there's no
digestion process involved. Excess food is 'dealt with' rather
than 'digested'."
      At that moment a man walked up to their table, excused
himself and handed Haggles a slip of paper. He nodded, glanced at
the note and frowned, all at once lost in thoughts. Meanwhile she
watched the islets loaded with fake vegetation slowly encircling
their table, and for the first time noted that as the light
intensity diminished the petals closed and opened up again as the
lights came back up again to their previous level. This had to be
one hell of an intricate program. The simulated night©and©day
cycle only lasted a few minutes, night being just a few shades
darker than day. The islets were already being rearranged,
veering away from their table in a lazy swirl, to be replaced by
some pieces of fascinating miniature architecture, catching and
reflecting lightbeams shot at it from carefully selected angles
as it was moving into place.
   Haggles seemed to have made up his mind, entered some more
messages through the keyboard and pushed it out of the way.
    "Business," he explained to her. "When an important highªlevel decision has to be made I am immediately consulted. My
decision is downloaded to the Eyescape Inc. mainframe for maximum
efficiency."
   "Why isn't the note downloaded into Molinari's computer?"
she asked. "If speed and efficiency are so important?"
 "Good question. Look at it this way : the downloading
process might just interfere with for instance my entering an
order to the kitchen. Delays, interference, we just can't have
that. There are priorities to be observed. It's one of my
idiosyncracies, and I'm sorry if it bothers certain people. By
the way, speaking of orders, may I offer another suggestion?" He
did, and once more she accepted. What else was there to do?
    "Oh yes, your story," he reminded her as they waited for the
main course to arrive. She was relieved he hadn't totally
forgotten about it.
 "The spaceship lands on earth, and it appears the aliens
aren't too pleased with the human population infesting this nice
planet. They decide to wipe 'em off the face of the earth. So
they start exterminating mankind and destroying everything in
their path, and©©"
     "Does that include restaurants? Barbarians!" Haggles
chuckled uncontrollably. "They don't deserve this planet."
     "Then they run into these people equipped with this new
artifical skin, this face©mimicking gadget, and it turns out to
work with these aliens' faces too with far©reaching consequences.
Being confronted with someone who sports your own face reminds
them of an ancient myth from their own culture."
       "Hold on right there. The main course is arriving. Tell me
more afterwards. Fascinating stuff, by the way. Oh, this really
looks terrific." Food once again demanded his full attention, and
she joined in somewhat less passionately. As he had finished he
continued his own line of conversation.
        "We had cracked the food©intake problem, but there was
another matter. When you've had enough, you lose your appetite.
You no longer feel like eating anymore, even though you've been
altered physically to deal with yet more food. This problem
required some gland reconstruction, and I must say the results
are awesome. Our people even managed to enhance the enjoyment of
food by developing a refined set of taste buds implanted in great
quantities on the tongue. This solved most of the major problems.
There were of course a few minor problems to be dealt with, but
these were standard procedures. I'm referring here to the
replacement of vital organs like my liver every six months, but
organ replacements and fast custom©made cloning have become
trivial matters these days."
   If you can pay for them, she thought. If the possibility is
at all open to you. Which isn't the case for most people,
actually. As you know all too well, Mister Taste Bud.
  "You could say that I'm a walking Eyescape Inc. advertising
campaign," he said, chuckling that irritating chuckle again. "A
walking and talking one at that."
      Well, she thought, I'm not too sure you manage a lot of
walking what with the paunch and the never©ending appetite and
all that. And as for the talking, wouldn't it be a good idea to
consider cutting down on it?
   "Well, where were we? Oh yes, dessert. I'll order dessert
for both of us and then you can tell me some more about that
story of yours. Should be shaping up nicely. Count me in. I'm
fully behind you on this, you know. I'll tell you more : as soon
as the rough cut of your work is finished I want to be the first
to plug into it. I want to check it out personally. I have that
kind of trust in you, and I take that kind of interest in this
new project of ours down to the advertising stage. I may be high
up in the hierarchy but that doesn't mean I can't see or don't
wish to see what's happening at ground level. Call me unorthodox
if you want. Call me unconventional. Call me whenever you feel
the need. And by all means call me when you feel like having
dinner in outstanding company." A quick chuckle, and he was
serious again. "I'm sure you'll agree with my choice as far as
dessert is concerned." He tapped some keys again.
      I guess I'll have to agree with all your choices, she
thought. And I'll call you Mr. Taste Bud. Suits you better than
your own suggestions. As she saw he felt ready to hear the rest
of her story, she picked up where she had left.
        "The story's protagonist, obviously equipped with the
gadget, gradually becomes aware of his or her powers and starts a
rebellion that will ultimately manage to defeat the alien enemy."
      "Hmm. Sounds okay to me, but a bit serious. Of course I'm
judging from a rough outline which may not reflect the tone of
the story. Were you considering a mix of extravagant action and
wild comedy?"
  "That can be arranged. Actually I had considered making a
variety of cuts in different tones to suit the needs of different
types of customers. I never could do that in the past due to
budget restrictions, but©©"
    "You can scrap that word from your vocabulary with us. Ah,
there's the desserts. If only you could enjoy them as much as I
do, but of course, what with you still being out of touch with
our habits of what I label self©improvement that's just not
possible. But as you grow familiar with our lifestyle you will no
doubt follow us." Haggles diverted his attention to his food once
more. The four©armed waiter had come and gone, as did the scenery
and the backdrops around them. She toyed with the undefinable
items on her plate rather than eating them. Haggles didn't seem
to notice or didn't care. As she had finished he told her he knew
what he wanted to know and would get back in touch with her when
necessary. As the man ordered some more loads of gourmet food,
for himself alone this time, she was escorted out of Molinari's
and back to the I©Site.
        That afternoon she continued basic work on story development
and practical matters with Alan and Denise and felt she had made
quite some progress. News reached them that a bomb had landed in
the City Center, causing considerable damage and killing a number
of people. They were told the bomb had been launched somewhere in
Nowhere City and the mounting crisis and resulting social unrest
were to be blamed for it. Hope was expressed that this would be
an isolated incident rather than the harbinger of a major scale
social upheaval with repercussions even in the rich City Center.
       As she got home that evening she found to her dismay that
her apartment had been broken into and all her equipment had been
stolen, along with assorted items of varying worth. Had anybody
mentioned a mounting crisis and social unrest? As she had
employment now at the I©Site which had its own equipment this
burglary wasn't a total catastrophe for her, but still she would
try to figure out who was responsible and what could be done
about it. And, it occurred to her, maybe the time had really come
now to seriously consider severing all the links with Nowhere
City and moving to an affordable place in the City Center, if at
all possible. She had a lot to think about.



Ã *)Ã10

       "Now look," Reicher said to his men, a dreary©looking bunch
of demoralized soldiers cut loose from the War Force they were
supposed to support, from their world, from about everything
apart from their very existence. "As I see it there are two
possibilities open to us. Either we try to make contact with the
nearest Base, or we set out to reach Monrovia Base, the
headquarters in the center of the Afflicted Area, where our
presence may perhaps be appreciated more. I'd like to hear your
opinions, of course."
  Frianelli was the first to offer something. The man might be
a cynic, but in desperate situations his contributions were
highly valuable. "There's a problem with going to the nearest
Base," he said. "We can't get in touch with them, so they don't
know about our predicament. We don't even know if they're aware
of what happened to Nairobi Base. As far as we can tell maybe all
the Bases in this area have been destroyed. Just suppose that's
the case, and knowing there's no way to find out anything
beforehand, all our efforts to reach them will have been futile
and we would be worse off than we're now. I say we can't take
that slim a chance. Heading towards Monrovia Base on the other
hand may look like foolhardy nonsense but at least we can assume
they're still there. It sure won't be an easy stroll, but my vote
is firmly for Monrovia Base."
  "He's right," Carvalho said. "Monrovia Base it'll be if you
have any sense left in you."
   "I just don't know," MacLyle said. "Can't see how you're so
sure Harare Base, which is the nearest one if I recall correctly,
is so damn likely to be wiped off the map. Who says the
destruction of our Base can't have been an isolated event?"
    "Let me put it this way," Jim said. "If the enemy forces
have the power to thoroughly obliterate one Base, they're not
likely to leave it at that. So the areas around Harare Base and
Mogadisciu Base may be extremely dangerous right now. Those
places are probably crawling with enemy forces. Going there could
be suicide, especially as we can't get in touch with them, as
Carlo just pointed out. Maybe those Bases have withstood an enemy
attack or didn't even suffer one, but how can we know before it's
too late? We would be running an awful risk.
   "Going all the way to Monrovia Base may sound crazy, but I
think it's a safer bet. For one thing, we won't be crossing any
high©danger areas according to the information we were given. Now
I admit that can only be relied on to a certain extent, and the
situation is likely to change within very short notice." Jim
shook his head. He sounded adamant as he continued. "Yet I tend
to agree with Frianelli. It'll be a longer journey to Monrovia
Base, but we'll stand a bigger chance of making it © and if we
do, we'll probably be more useful over there than in this
miserable madhouse area here. They're bound to have better
organisation, and no doubt we'll be properly reintegrated into
the War Force. So my vote is for Monrovia Base. If any of you
disagree, please let me know your opinions."
   The others merely nodded or shook their heads. Either they
didn't have an opinion or they preferred to keep it to
themselves. VanderMeer was gazing dazedly in front of him,
murmuring incomprehensible words. The man would be a liability.
        "What do we do with them?" MacLyle asked, pointing towards
the spot where they had left the casualties. They had studied
them, but not having had any decent medical training had learned
nothing. Reicher sighed.
       "I'm very sorry, but there's nothing we can do for them. We
leave 'em here. What else can we do? Anybody else?" He looked at
the faces surrounding him, but nobody seemed inclined to add
anything anymore. "What about you, pal?" he said, addressing the
POW who had been silent most of the time ever since they had
captured him. The man shrugged resignedly, and even uttered a few
words.
 "Not staying behind alone. Go with you." He lowered his gaze
to the ground, lapsed back into brooding silence.
      "Right," he said. "Monrovia Base it'll be then. For whatever
it's worth. We only have a slim chance, but it'll have to do. To
hell with the odds, stacked high against us as they are. To hell
with©©" His voice trailed off, he shook his head. He was glad
Frianelli took over from him.
  "Better to leave right now," he said. "We've lost enough
time as it is. So get ready everybody. Off your asses, get
moving. To hell with the odds."
        Off they went, the fifteen men now under Jim's command. Make
that fourteen. You couldn't seriously consider the prisoner as
one of his men. Maybe it would have been wiser to leave him
behind.
        The journey proved to be rather uneventful. As the
vegetation wasn't too dense in this part of the jungle they
managed to cover quite a distance. Every now and then Frianelli
or Carvalho, who kept close to him, pointed out some striking
specimens of the local flora and fauna. None of these were too
disconcerting or mind©boggling. Their curiosity was aroused, oh
yes, but they looked upon the creatures with what could be
labeled scientific interest. Maybe, Jim thought, we're simply
getting used to the neighborhood. And we better make sure we fit
in completely before it's too late.
    At some passages they had to avoid tendrils dangling down
from the treetops, groping around with mouthlike extensions like
hungry children's hands begging for food. At one occasion they
were able to determine that the tendrils were carniverous : a few
bird©sized butterflies got caught by the dangling and bouncing
tendrils, were crushed mercilessly and digested. Some of the
tendrils had already finished their digestion process and dropped
the undigestible remains to the ground. The large butterflies
they saw on various occasions were striking creatures as well.
They had delicately structured bodies, coated with shiny armorªplates, and reminded Jim of small helicopters with diaphanous
wings. They rather flew like choppers too, and the wings gave the
impression of having ornamental value only.
    The creatures were quite curious about the intruders picking
their way through the jungle, but they appeared harmless. On one
occasion, as they had reached a glade, they had seen a vast swarm
of the chopper©butterflies swirling around. The clearing had to
be a gathering place of theirs. As they stood watching the
gracefully spinning swarm it suddenly dissolved into a string of
individual creatures heading off on a course through the upper
layers of the vegetation.
      The most remarkable specimen they encountered during their
trek was a giant turtle©like creature striding majestically past
them on spindly spider's legs without paying them any notice. For
once Jim was grateful for being ignored. The animal's eyes, on
stalks like a crab's, were constantly waving back and forth so as
to allow their owner a complete overview of its surroundings. On
its broad back it carried a load of parasitic or perhaps
symbiotic passengers entangled in the moss©like covering. Some of
these reminded Jim of anemones, swirling as in a strong current,
others appeared to be of insectoid nature, or wore shells. He
even detected a handful of tiny rodents among them, busily
scurrying about on their hunt for food.
    "This guy is a world on his own," Frianelli commented.
"Carrying an entire ecosphere with him. How do you explain that,
Jim? How can it survive? How do the guys on its back survive?
How for that matter did this constellation of life©forms evolve?"
      "I don't explain it," Jim replied. "I ignore it and hope it
returns the favor."
    "Don't tell me you're not curious."
    "I am. Just don't expect me to have an explanation ready for
everything I see. This guy is obviously part of the
transformation process going on here©©"
        "I had gathered that much, Jim."
       "©©and there's little for us to do but to acknowledge that
fact and get on with the job we're supposed to be doing. Got
that?"
 "Reading you loud 'n clear." For the rest of the day only a
few words were exchanged between them. Basically walking and
watching demanded their complete attention.
    As night came they set up camp in as safe a way as was
possible under the circumstances. He decided that half of them
should stay awake at all times, and a shift schedule was quickly
organized. Jim opted for the first shift, curious as he was to
see how this part of the jungle would look as the night dragged
on. He had expected a repeat performance of the fluorescence
spectacle supported by the overpowering background noise, but no
such phenomena manifested themselves. The quietness and normalcy
didn't really reassure him however. As a matter of fact, he found
them highly suspicious, and he reminded the others who had guard
duty to remain alert and expect the unexpected. Nothing was to be
trusted © especially not things that did their best to look
normal.
        As the end of his shift came nothing alarming had happened,
and he went to sleep with relative peace of mind. Maybe they
still stood a serious chance after all. Sleep came fast, and he
spent a dreamless night until he felt someone shaking him about,
a strong hand on his shoulder. "Jim, Jim," he heard the man
whisper. He looked up, shook the remnants of sleep off of him,
blinked a few times, caught his breath as he recognized the man
who had awoken him in the pale light of dawn.
  "Dad?" he asked in a hoarse voice, stricken with unbelief.
"Dad...? This is ridiculous." All at once he sat up straight,
threw glances around him. All of his men were sound asleep, those
on guard weren't within sight. He wasn't dreaming. This was
reality, and still he didn't believe it.
       "How are you doing boy?" his dad asked him. "You look scared
shitless, as though something dreadful has happened. Tell me.
What's the problem? No doubt I can be of help." His dad stared
into his face, the well©known features, greying hair, the smell
of expensive after©shave overwhelming him. "How's the war going?"
he insisted, still clutching him by the arm. "Come on, Amanda,
say hello to uncle Jim."
       Amanda? His niece, here in Africa's Afflicted Area, in the
middle of the goddamn war zone? This was sheer nonsense. A dream.
A fucked©up nightmare. His brain had gone haywire. A total nut
case. Farewell, Jim. Say goodbye to your brain. It's gone
forever. But then Amanda was in his arms, and she felt as real as
she had ever felt in the old days at home, her tinkling laughter,
the bright blue eyes, the blonde curls stroking against his face,
the smell of freshly ironed clothes, the invigorating warmth of a
six year old girl pressed against his chest. "Uncle Jim?" He
stared at her numbly, still unable to say a word. It took him a
few minutes to get his act together.
   "Can I speak to you in private, Jim?" his dad asked him, and
he nodded. How could he refuse? Your dad turns up in the middle
of the African jungle where he can't possibly be and you would
refuse to talk to him in private? His dad took him by the arm,
led him some distance away, leaving Amanda behind, playing
merrily on her own.
    "My God, Jim," he said as he faced him once again, calming
him down simply by the look in his eyes as so many times in the
past, "you look haggard, you must be in real bad shape. Don't
tell me things aren't going right. I won't buy that story. You're
not a loser, you're bound to win in the end and you know that.
Come on, boy, spill it out. What's bugging you?"
       Jim swallowed a few times, still too numb to realize what
was happening. Could Amanda and this dad©creature be part of this
transformation process? Not too damn likely. Was this a
hallucination? If so it was a godawfully good one. It felt real,
unlike most of this place. Meanwhile his dad was still waiting
for a reply, genuine concern and impatience now creasing his
face. He shook his head, patted Jim on the shoulder.
   "Now listen, Jim, I can see you're in trouble. But allow me
to tell you this. Whatever happens, however ugly the situation
you're in, however dark the future might look to you, always keep
in mind the ideals that got you here in the first place. You know
very well that the bio©catalyst Research and Development
facilities are threatened by a group of criminal armed forces
trying to undermine the foundation of our welfare system. Someone
has to stop them before the situation deteriorates to the point
where really drastic measures become inevitable. We need
idealistic, heroic young men like you Jim to straighten out
matters. We're counting on you, Jim. Don't let us down. Don't let
those scumbags dictate us their laws. We just can't allow
everything to fall to pieces, we can't allow our lives to slip
through our fingers. These remarkable phenomena occurring in the
Afflicted Area can be turned into a benefit for mankind. We
shouldn't allow organized crime and guerrilla forces to take over
control of it for their own purposes. So don't let us down, Jim.
Get your act together and kick the shit out of 'em!" He slapped
him encouragingly on the back, and started to walk back to the
spot where Amanda was still playing.
   "How did you get here, dad?" The moment he uttered these
words he realized how absolutely foolish they sounded, but he
couldn't keep the question back. Amanda jumped into his arms and
he caught her, caressed her blonde locks.
      "What do you mean, Jim? I thought I just had to tell you
this, so I came over to support your cause. My God, Jim, you're
in worse shape than I had imagined. My God." His dad sighed,
shoulders drooping, suddenly sobbing with grief and despair.
   "Jim, Jim," another voice was now shouting in his ear, a
voice equally well©known to him, and a strong hand was thumping
him on his back. He turned around, and all at once Amanda was
gone as if she had never been there in the first place and he was
looking straight into Frianelli's excited face.
        "Get up, Jim. We've got company. And we've lost some
company. Shit, man, how can you sleep through all this? Get the
the hell on your feet, man."
  He rose to his knees and looked all around. With mounting
despair and a feeling of rising sickness he noted that night had
once again taken its toll.
     "What happened?" he asked in a hoarse whisper.
 "What happened? You mean, you can't see what happened?"
        "Tell me anyhow," he said. "I stopped believing what my eyes
tell me."
      "I know what you mean. You've been seeing things too. You're
not the only one. But what you're seeing now is very much real,
Jim. This disaster isn't dreamed up by you, Jim. You're smack in
the middle of it. And we'd better figure out how to get the hell
out of it before it gets us too."
      He rose to his feet now, tried to clear his head, inspected
what was left of their camp. Only seven of them were still there.
The others had disappeared, had been killed or kidnapped or eaten
alive or for all he knew been turned into knee©high pink
mushrooms. There was a mass of these all over the place. He
didn't remember seeing them last night when they had picked this
spot for setting up camp, but then jungle vegetation was known
to flourish and wither at an amazing pace. Only over here it
wasn't just the pace that was amazing.
 Most of their equipment had been stolen too. They had only a
few guns left, a small amount of ammunition, virtually no food or
water. They were pretty much left to their own devices now.
Carvalho and MacLyle were still among them, as was VanderMeer who
was still mumbling to himself in a state of semi©consciousness.
Their POW was gone. Jim locked eyes with Frianelli, and asked,
"So what happened?"
   "Nobody knows. Those who had guard duty are among the ones
who're gone. And all of us were apparently under the influence of
something. So were you, I guess."
      "I was. Any idea what it was?"
 "I don't. But these people claim to know. Look behind you."
    Jim looked over his shoulder and noticed a group of four
people standing there, almost hidden among high ferns and broad
leaves hanging down from the trees. Two middle©aged men, a woman,
and a girl in her twenties, all sporting enigmatic smiles. They
appeared to be Hispanics, they wore no uniforms and were
apparently unarmed, and he had no clue as to what they were doing
here in the middle of the war zone. He shot a glance at
Frianelli.
     "Who are these people?"
        "Not the ones who inflicted all this on us. They don't
belong to any military or guerrilla group. They, ah, live here.
If you want more information I suggest you ask them."
  Jim shifted his gaze back to the four people. One of them,
the girl, came up to them, eyeing him intently. She pointed at
the pink mushrooms and said in heavily accented English, "Can't
stay here. Have to go now. Dangerous. They will make you dream
again."
        "If I understood this correctly," Frianelli interrupted,
"these mushrooms release hallucinogenic spores at regular
intervals. That's what caused our troubles. I'm not sure if
they're also the cause of the other guys running off, but suppose
they were having a bad trip?"
  "Did the mushrooms also take the equipment and guns?"
  "Well, I haven't frisked them. Feel free to do so."
   "Cut the crap, Carlo. Do these people©©"
       "Follow us," the girl interrupted in her turn. "Many
creatures and people around here to steal what you have,
including your life. Come to the village. We will tell you more."
Without further words the four of them took off, and Jim and the
others quickly collected their few belongings left and followed
them. What else was there to do?
       It took them about twenty minutes to reach the village via a
meandering trail across the jungle only perceived by their four
guides. Three of them were unwilling to speak to them. Maybe, Jim
thought, they didn't speak English but were okay people apart
from that. The girl was his only hope and during those twenty
minutes he was able to elicit a minimum of information from her.
It struck him she never answered questions in any usual way, and
her answers were always accompanied by wry smiles.
     "What's your name?" he had asked her, as good a starting
point as any, he had presumed.
 "Don't know," she had said after a moment's hesitation. "But
you can call me Liberaciá¢án."
 "I can hardly believe you people live here, what with the
war and everything going on here. You must be in mortal danger
every minute of the day. What keeps you here?"
 She had shot a piercing glance at him, dark©brown eyes
trying to get through to his very essence, scanning the darkest
recesses of his soul, her expression changing from inquiring into
condescending. It took awhile before she deemed him worthy of a
reply.
 "You know nothing of this place. We're safe here."
     "What a load of crap. And the war?"
   "What war? Maybe you're the war."
      "You mean you hadn't noticed there's a war going on? Oh
that's real cute, lady. I like that. It's all so very much in the
background, eh? Whole Bases are wiped off the map, most of my
buddies are dead or missing, we're constantly under attack of an
invisible and practically unconquerable enemy ticking us off one
by one and you're wondering what war we're talking about. Maybe
we're just taking all this too seriously, that what you mean?
Maybe we should simply sit back and enjoy the countryside and©©"
       "©©and keep our stupid mouth shut," Frianelli finished his
sentence, thumping him on the back. "You're talking way too much,
Jim. Wait till we get to that village. Let's see what these
people have to offer and go from there. We'll have to face this
situation as it is anyway, so we'd better stay cool and levelªheaded." Little was said after that. Only VanderMeer's incessant
mumbling could be heard.
       To his amazement the village turned out to be a fairly
peaceful©looking place indeed. It seemed on all accounts to be a
permanent settlement rather than the makeshift affair he had
expected. It was primitive, but workable. He now heard the
people speak in their own language, which he thought was
Spanish. They were welcomed without too much enthusiasm, but then
there was no reason to expect otherwise. They were given food, a
substance unknown to him which was pretty tasteless but it seemed
to fill their stomachs and right now they didn't ask for more.
They were also given canteens of a bitter liquid which they
gulped down avidly. As their most pressing needs had been
attended to Jim thought it was now time for a full round of
questions.
    "I noticed you speak Spanish," he said to Liberaciá¢án. "I
take it you're from South America?"
    The girl nodded, and a few locks of curly black hair dangled
before her eyes. She didn't move them back into place, preferred
watching him from behind the locks partially obscuring her eyes.
       "We're from Colombia," she admitted. "We fled the war."
        "Fled the war?" he asked. There had been, a few years back,
a bloody civil war in Colombia, which had caused an exodus of
refugees into neighboring countries. But why had these few dozens
fled into another war zone? That was sheer madness. "Isn't this
war even worse?" he asked.
     "You're the war," she said once again. "You don't
understand. We live in peace here. See? We're unarmed. No danger
for us. Only you are in trouble."
      He shook his head. This was utter nonsense of course, but
somehow her words rang true. This tiny village looked pretty
peaceful. These people seemed quite laid©back, enjoying a
pastoral life in a jungle unspoiled by human civilization. He
decided to play the game along with her.
       "What about this transformation process? Doesn't that bother
you? Weird creatures? Dangerous plant©life? Or maybe these too
are rumors greatly exaggerated?"
       "We live with it," she stated matter of factly, as if that
explained everything. "You guys use it, steal it, cause trouble,
fight and kill, and it strikes back."
  "I should have known this was all our fault," he said, but
apparently she didn't have a sense of humor, or else the irony
was beyond her. "Tell me more," he said. "I'm curious. I know so
little of this place. What's all this about then? Please, I'm
serious. You're our only hope, Liberaciá¢án. We're at a loss, and
we're counting on you to get us back on our feet. Give us a
perspective again. Make the world make sense again. Liberaciá¢án?
You reading me?" He looked her pleadingly in the eye, and after a
pause she did release some information at last.
        They had arrived in Africa some years back and had settled
here after some wandering. This was the rim of the Afflicted Area
and the war had just gotten off the ground. It hadn't bothered
them too much apparently. (Jim thought that perhaps they had been
misinformed about the war's nature or its size all along. Maybe
Frianelli had been right all the time after all.) They had found
out you could live with the transforming jungle as long as you
"went with the flow" as she put it. Jim wasn't too sure what that
was supposed to mean.
  She told him what the bio©catalysts really were. They were
mutations caused by radioactive contamination. Someone had dumped
these toxic wastes in the jungle, and the effects of the
radiation were spreading on and on at an ever©increasing pace.
First Jim thought it was hogwash. A complete ecosphere radically
transforming in a nearly unearthly way simply couldn't be a mere
mutation. But then again the girl probably wasn't lying, he
realized. Maybe this was an explanation they had picked up
somewhere along the line, a way of making sense out of all this
chaos, an attempt to explain rationally what was going on around
them. For all he knew there was an element of truth in this
explanation.
   And the war then? Well, admittedly, they ran into it every
now and then but didn't suffer much from it. They were innocent
passersby, no more than that. Most of the heavy fighting occurred
either around Monrovia Base in the heart of the jungle or around
the Bases scattered all over the Afflicted Area, many along its
rim. As long as you didn't take part, she claimed, you could
virtually ignore the war. This didn't sound too convincing to
Jim, although he had to admit that the village was very much
there and that these people appeared to live here in relative
peace as far as he was able to tell. He had to accept what she
was telling him until he had proof of the opposite.
    "So what about us?" he asked her finally. "Wat do we do now?
There's only a handful of us left. Any suggestions?"
   "You can live here," she said. "Forget the war. Stop
fighting. Accept all this as it is." She made a broad sweeping
gesture encompassing the entire jungle.
        "Impossible," he said. "We're here on a mission. We're
trained soldiers. We'll never give up. We'll carry on no matter
what happens."
 "You will die," she stated as if it were an established
fact.
  "Our best bet," he continued, "is that we try to make it to
Monrovia Base. That's our only hope to get out of here and pick
up the thread where we left it. Our only chance to complete our
mission."
      She shook her head, and more locks came dangling down, now
obscuring half of her face. She finally ran her hand through her
hair, moving it roughly back into shape. She scrutinized him, her
eyes once again penetrating deep into his soul, and she smiled
that wry smile again, only this time he had the distinct feeling
it was more natural, an expression of human warmth and empathy.
        "You will die," she repeated, then added, "Unless..."
  "Unless what?"
 "Unless I go with you." The smile intensified, and inside
him the warmth kept spreading.



Ã *)Ã11

    "Basically you've done a good job," Cynthia said to the
handful of assistants clustered around the table, watching her
intently. They had written a number of scenes, the opening
segments of her story, following her specifications. This was a
luxury she had never been granted : not having to do all the
writing herself. She would do the crucial parts, of course, but
having a crew of assistants allowed her to work as efficiently as
possible. She had total control over them. She had plugged into
the scenes they had done so far, and was reasonably pleased.
   "Still, a number of details bother me," she continued. "I'm
not too glad with the colors. Especially in the opening segments
these should flash and sparkle, blind and dazzle the eye. The
customer's mind is supposed to be boggled. I'd like you to speed
up the pace a bit too. This isn't some romantic drooling part,
it's supposed to grab the attention and run off at breakneck
speed. So get to work and hand me your disks as soon as you're
finished."
     The conference was over and the assistants nodded and headed
back to work. As they left someone else entered, and it took her
a few seconds to recognize him.
        "Good to see you," the man said. "I'm back, as you've
clearly noticed. Do you remember me? Need I introduce myself?
Well, that can only mean I got my money's worth." He chuckled
smugly.
        "There's no need to introduce yourself, mister Gene
Kirzowski. Anyway, your voice hasn't changed. It would have given
away your true identity no matter what. So what do I say now,
something like 'Good to have you back with us?'"
       "Never mind. How do you like my new features? As I was
convalescing in the hospital, I was told I could have my face
surgically rearranged for a modest sum. Couldn't say no to that.
It's one of the reasons why I choose to run physical risks every
now and then. It's become a hobby. I get everything shaped up
again and change a few bits as I go. To be honest, most of these
improvements are on the inside of me, and you won't get to see
those. Unless you get to know me real intimate, ha! Well, what do
you say?"
      "You still look better than Jordan Haggles."
   "Thanks for the compliment. But I wouldn't say that too loud
or too often in here. He's highly respected by a lot of folks
around here. To some he's become an icon, the incarnation of newªlife. But let's change the subject. I've been told you've had
problems?"
     "That's right. You came back."
 "Seriously, your place has been broken into? Lots of stuff
taken away or destroyed? Listen, I can help. I've been thinking
and I came up with some ideas. One possibility is that you move
in with me. And don't you for a second think that I'm not taking
this seriously. I know you weren't too keen on that idea, but I
urge you to reconsider."
      "Next possibility, please."
    "Well, what about this setup : the guys who stole your stuff
are out to sell it to the highest bidder, right? So you better be
that highest bidder. Buy back your stuff, and at the same time
you find out who the thieves were. Don't worry about the money.
It can be provided. Well?"
     "I have to admit it," she said after some quick thinking. "I
might go along with that. Fill me on the details. In the meantime
I need some stuff right away. Any bright ideas on that score?"
 "I'm willing to extend a helping hand," he said in mockªgrandiloquence. "After work I'll go with you to this nearby
shopping mall. That should do the job. As for payment, I think
Eyescape Inc. will agree to cover some of it. I'll cough up the
rest. That a deal?"
    After the day's work was put behind them, they went on a
shopping spree in a nearby shopping mall, a giant multi©layered
structure that ran several stories both up and down ground level.
Overwhelming and awe©inspiring as it was, it left a bitter tang
in Cynthia's mouth because of its stark contrast with Nowhere
City's poorly stocked ramshackle stores, not to mention the
countless vendors, as haggard as they were greedy, who roamed the
corners and market squares peddling their wares. Lots of stuff
was being rationed, and more low©quality bootleg merchandise was
changing hands in Nowhere City. There was no sign of all this
here. This was the throbbing heart of new©lifers' welfare
society, consumerism at its paroxysm, opulence at its most
glittering. People swarmed in and out of the many halls and
corridors and gangways, giving the mall the look of a human
anthill.
      Scattered among the multitude of large chain©stores and
smaller shops and boutiques were a surprising number of VRT
arcades, chockful of people happily plugged in and tripping out
of their minds. Any possible doubts lingering in Cynthia's mind
as to the popularity of her line of work in the rich City Center
were now definitely dispelled. All the VRT rigs in these arcades
were credit card operated. Free, "commercial" VRTs were only to
be found in the larger shops, installed for waiting customers or
parents whose children were busy bying or browsing (or vice
versa, as some VRT producers catered to children). This had to be
sheer heaven for the growing numbers of VRT junkies, plugged in
for as long as their credit cards would allow.
 As they had purchased some clothes and some other personal
items, they became aware of a commotion just outside a nearby
exit. People flocked towards the scene of the action, and they
allowed themselves to be carried with the flow. It turned out
that another missile had been launched from Nowhere City's rim
area and had exploded in a street packed with shoppers and people
going home from work. A number had been more or less seriously
injured. Most of the attention, however, was drawn to two victims
who had borne the full brunt of the onslaught.
 They were sprawled on top of each other, bleeding from deep
wounds and probably doomed. They thrashed and flailed furiously
about, wriggled and squirmed in a sequence of violent
convulsions. To Cynthia's surprise one of them, the fat man
underneath, appeared to be actually absorbing the maimed nearªcorpse that had been thrown upon him by the concussion. It was as
though these two people were actually two halves of one creature
which had been separated by accident and were now trying to
reassemble themselves. The man on top, a lifeless hulk despite
his twitchings and shuddering about, appeared to be sucked into
the larger man's frame, flesh and tissue and bones and blood
merging, losing shape, vaguely assuming another ill©conceived
unhuman shape, then something went wrong and the quavering mass
trembled and shook, blood and other less definable liquid
spilling out in increasing quantities until at last all life
seemed to flee from the twin©bodied creature and the whole
structure sagged and started to fall apart. There was no longer
any trace of its human origins. Only a clump of organic waste was
left as a reminder of the two humans who had fallen prey to the
bomb.
  "I think I understand what happened here," Gene said, gently
putting his hand on her shoulder as they turned away and walked
off. "One of these guys, the fat one underneath I suppose, must
have had some bio©surgery applied to him. I gather he'd had
installed some intensive healing and regenerative faculties which
got hit by the bomb and were no longer functioning properly. So
this one guy's altered metabolism failed to interpret what had
happened correctly. It failed to distinguish between the two
people involved. It thought there was only one person who had to
be put together again, and when it noticed that in doing so it
didn't end up with anything resembling the template it had been
programmed with it fucked up altogether and broke down."
       "Resulting in both of them dying?"
     "Exactly."
     "This new technology of yours is really wonderful, Gene. Was
that an Eyescape Inc. commercial we witnessed just now?"
       "You're very funny, Cynthia. How could we take into account
the effects of a physical attack like this? Seriously, can't you
see the benefits? If the other guy hadn't been thrown onto the
new©lifer he would have stood a decent chance of survival. His
enhanced healing faculties would have done the job. How could
they have foreseen the effects in the case of another injured
person smeared all over the first victim?"
     "They couldn't foresee that. Still I think this whole
business sucks."
       "You're prejudiced. You're unwilling to accept the merits of
state of the art bio©technology."
      "And you're unwilling to see the reasons behind these
attacks that caused the deaths in the first place."
    "This argument is getting us nowhere, Cynthia."
        "Because you're refusing to listen to me."
     "You're getting carried away by your preconceptions. Your
background muddles your perception, you're biased and simply
unwilling to even©©"
   "Aw, come on, Gene."
   After that they exchanged few words. She said she would do
the rest of her shopping some other time. She wanted to go home
and think. She wanted to leave the City Center behind for now and
retreat to the haven that Nowhere City's rim was, despite its
unpleasant side. After all it was home; imperfect, dangerous and
rundown, but very much home. On one hand she had hoped to leave
it behind ; on the other hand she now doubted if she could bring
herself to make that move. The City Center no longer seemed to be
that much©vaunted better world.
        Later that night, her few new belongings stacked safely
away, she watched the news on TV. The war was still going strong,
the reporters claimed, but no details were given, and she had the
distinct feeling once again that the footage that was shown
wasn't new. It looked like recombined footage of earlier news
broadcasts. The information given was the flimsiest and least
revealing stuff they could get away with. They weren't ready to
admit it yet, but the war was definitely not going according to
plan, that much was clear.
     There was so much she would like to find out. What was
really going on in the Afflicted Area? Why were soldiers
transported over here without anybody explaining or even paying
attention? What were the bio©catalysts? Had anybody ever given
any solid answers to these questions? Weren't they supposed to
get these answers? Weren't they perhaps even supposed to ask
these questions?
       A host of other questions of a more personal nature had
surfaced in her conscience. Would it be a wise thing to relocate
to the City Center, accepting financial help from Gene or other
Eyescape Inc. personnel? How would she go about working for them
without losing her true identity?
      At least Gene had offered one sensible suggestion she was
inclined to accept. Bying back her stolen property was an
interesting idea with promising ramifications. It might get her
in touch with some of Nowhere City's less appetizing denizens.
But then again these might turn out to have helpful relations or
capabilities. She could definitely sense possibilities there.
Perhaps a deal could be struck. She would have to go about this
matter very carefully and get as much out of it as she could.
  Once again her mind was flooded with thoughts.



12

   Jim felt Frianelli's hand on his shoulder and heard a faint
hiss. They all ducked and took cover.
  "Recognize those uniforms?" Frianelli whispered into his
ear.
   "I sure do. But does that mean they're on our side?"
   "Not necessarily. Whatever our side may be, for that
matter." He slapped Jim on the shoulder. There were only four of
them left now. Carvalho and MacLyle had decided to stay in the
village. They were exhausted, both physically and morally, and
were simply unable to continue much further. VanderMeer, however,
was still with them. His condition, physical or mental or
otherwise, was a total mystery to them. They didn't even know
whether he was an asset or a liability. There wasn't the merest
shred of contact with him. Yet now he had taken cover along with
them. Did that mean he could still evaluate a situation and act
accordingly? Or had he unthinkingly followed their example? There
seemed to be no way to find out. The fourth person of their group
was Liberaciá¢án. She was also a mystery, but of a totally
different kind. At least they would still have a chance to find
out more about her as they continued their trek through the
forest.
        Right now more pressing matters were at hand. They had run
into what appeared to be a guerrilla force, a slapdash army
consisting of fighters of various kinds. What had surprised them
was that some elements of this motley crew sported War Force
uniforms. Perhaps these were simply stolen uniforms. Or maybe
these guys were renegade War Force types. They all acted very
casually. Either this was no combat mission, or if it was they
lacked a proper authority figure. But then, Jim thought, what
else could be expected of a bunch of ragtag guerrilleros? How
could Frianelli for a moment believe these men were on their
side? Probably he was trying to tell him©©
     His train of thought was interrupted as VanderMeer rose from
behind them and lumbered in the direction of the soldiers who
stopped dead in their tracks, staring at this unholy sight.
VanderMeer was windmilling his arms about, the vines and tendrils
and fluffs of vegetation he was covered with waving and flapping
merrily along. He uttered a string of totally unhuman sounds,
fell down to his knees and planted his palms firmly on the
ground, remaining motionless in this position as the onlookers
exchanged glances and decided he was just another harmless spawn
of the transforming forest.
    Some of the soldiers however had cast inquiring glances in
the direction VanderMeer had come from, and soon the three of
them were detected and rounded up. Their guns and ammo and food
supplies, or what was left of it, were taken. One moment Jim
thought that they would be taken captive or even get killed.
After all this was a war zone, and they were regular army
troopers. He was ready to face whatever was in store for them as
the leaders of the gang walked up to him and Frianelli.
Liberaciá¢án hadn't been bothered. She had exchanged some words
with the men in a language he was unfamiliar with (Spanish? It
hadn't quite sounded like Spanish) and they had ignored her from
then on. Jim hoped she would put in a good word for Carlo
Frianelli and himself.
      "Who are you?" one of the men said, addressing them both. A
tanned face, proud smile, probing eyes, casual stance, hands
planted firmly on hips. As Jim was pondering what the safest
answer would be in view of the circumstances, Frianelli said
sneeringly:
    "We were about to ask you the same question."
  The man studied Frianelli through narrowed eyes, then his
smug smile grew wider and he said, "Hey, I like you. You got
character. Maybe we shouldn't kill you."
       "I tend to agree with you there."
      Jim groaned; the man chuckled. Why was Frianelli doing this?
Had he gone out of his mind? Or was this some devious plan to get
them out of this predicament?
  "Tell you what," the man said, "there'd be no point in
killing you two. You don't matter anyway. Why bother?"
 "I'll take that as a compliment," Frianelli replied. So
that's it, Jim thought. We're of no importance in the overall
scheme of things. Whether we get killed here or are allowed to
roam about this forest, unarmed and without supplies, for a
little while longer won't change the course of history. These
guys aren't enemies, nor are they friends. They're simply
ignoring us, which, let's be honest about this, is more than we
could have asked for.
  "We'll let you go," the man said. "You and your guide. And,
of course, your friend." He nodded in the direction of VanderMeer
who had risen to his feet again and was taking in the scene.
"He's the only one of you guys who's in tune with the forest,"
the man laughed. "Maybe you should follow his example. I know
what you are. You're War Force guys who fucked up and now drift
aimlessly around. Maybe you'll see the light, one day, and switch
sides. Joining us is your only hope. But we won't ask you to.
You'll have to decide for yourselves. Or let the forest make the
decision for you, like it did for your friend." VanderMeer slowly
turned around his head, as if he had overheard the conversation
and was keen to find out what was being said about him. His face
was totally expressionless, his features barely noticeable under
the dirt and grime.
    "Alright, time to leave now. But first, we'd like to have
some fun. We don't have this opportunity nearly enough. Boys!" He
turned around, gave a signal to his men who got ready to have
some fun. One second Jim thought they were going to get killed
after all, but the guerrilleros limited themselves to some
cheerful pushing about, kicking and stomping and fist swinging,
taking everything they had on their bodies that might be of some
use, and finally left them dazed and bruised but not seriously
injured on the ground.
 They got up again, faced each other, then looked up as they
saw Liberaciá¢án coming back to them, an enigmatic smile on her
face. "You were lucky," she said. "They gave you a chance. Don't
throw it away. You'll never get a second one."
 "Thanks for the advice," Jim mumbled. "Any other
suggestions?"
  "Why don't you simply continue on your way? Aren't you guys
soldiers, out on a combat mission, unstoppable as long as you
haven't reached your goal?"
    "I guess we are," Jim said, sighing.
   "I guess we were," Frianelli countered.
       VanderMeer said nothing, but stumbled in their direction,
barely able to keep himself from toppling over.
        "Thanks for your help," Jim said to him. "What would we do
without you?"
  "I'll give you a complete list of those activities,"
Frianelli said. "Are we going now? Hanging around won't lead us
anywhere. Any suggestions?" They locked eyes, and before either
of them could say anything Liberaciá¢án took over.
     "Follow me," she said, turned around and went off. They
followed her, as requested.
    It soon became clear to them, as they wound their way
through the vegetation, that they were following the group that
they had just run into. Jim asked Liberaciá¢án a few times why they
were heading in the same direction, but she simply urged them to
follow her. After some time they reached a clearing, and the girl
halted, indicated a gigantic organic cluster at their left side.
Again she wore this enigmatic smile of hers. Jim found it quite
irritating. Why couldn't she simply explain things if there was
anything they needed to know?
  At first sight it had appeared to be a giant blob of
intertwined foliage, stems, flowers, tendrils and vines, covered
with a sticky liquid that shone dully in the sunlight piercing
through the leaves overhead. As they peered closer they saw it
wasn't strictly composed of plant lifeforms. Embedded in the
mucky structure were a variety of small animals, rodents and
snakes and the helicopter©like butterflies they had already
seen, and also humans. This didn't come as a total surprise after
everything they had encountered so far, but still it had a
sickening effect on them. Jim turned away in horror, and
Frianelli was clearly fighting down an urge to vomit. Some of the
corpses were in the middle and could barely be seen. Others had
body parts close to the surface.
       Had these people been caught by this thing? Had they been
trapped and were they incorporated into it? Were they perhaps
digested, did they serve as food for this thing? Were they
helpless victims or willing participants? Was this a terrible
accident or an experiment of various creatures trying to live
together in harmony? For that matter, were these people dead or
were they continuing their lives in a radically different
fashion? He had seen enough already to know that jumping to
conclusions was often wrong here.
      "Look!" Frianelli said, voice quavering.
       Jim looked at the indicated spot and noticed what had drawn
Carlo's attention. The structure was moving, at first nearly
imperceptably, but then the quivering and shuddering became
increasingly noticeable.
       "What the hell is this supposed to be?" Frianelli asked.
       "Dunno," Jim said, "but I have this feeling this thing is
alive. This whole cluster. I think none of these guys inside are
dead. See those twitchings?"
   Frianelli nodded, stepped back, as though afraid the blob
was about to burst apart into his face. "They're still alive in
there," he mumbled. "All the damn animals, the plants. And those
poor devils too, I guess. Aw shit, Jim, look at that. See those
arms? And those eyes! Look at their goddamn eyes!" He turned away
in disgust.
    Frianelli was right. The shaking and twitching movements
were no longer random. It looked as if the hands visible within
the clump of organic material were groping for them, reaching
out, eager to touch them. Or perhaps, Jim thought, chilled at the
very idea, trying to draw us into the structure as well. We're
considered to be interesting additions to this multi©species
conglomerate, eager to expand as it is. He too stepped back now.
Was it his imagination or were the faces embedded in the
structure watching them? The eyes couldn't be seen too clearly;
there was no way to be sure. Jim didn't know if he wanted to be
sure.
  From behind him a grumbling and a muffled roar resounded. He
looked over his shoulder and saw it was VanderMeer who was
clumsily making his way toward him. Jim retreated further, only
to find out that VanderMeer wasn't out to get him. He was heading
straight for the blob.
 "Aw shit, Jim," he heard Frianelli say, "he's going to take
a plunge. He's joining the crew, can't you see? A full member of
the club. Why don't we get out of here, Jim, before they extend
the offer to us? Let's turn down the special bonus rate now
applying and get our asses©©"
  "Shut up," Jim said. "Look. I don't think there's any real
danger involved here for any of us."
   They both watched with rising revulsion as VanderMeer flung
himself headfirst into the organism, sank halfway in and remained
stuck that way. Only his legs and his lower body were still
outside. The blob shuddered and shook violently, made random
movements and emitted vague blurping and squishing sounds. After
a few minutes silence returned, only small stirrings made the
surface of the multiple creature ripple gently. To their
amazement VanderMeer started working his way out again, wriggling
and kicking wildly.
 "They refused him," Frianelli said. "Or he changed his mind,
or what's left of it. Maybe he can't afford the entrance fee, or
he didn't meet the required standards. Maybe©©"
        "Cut the crap Carlo or I'll throw you in and tell them to
keep you no matter what." The man cast him a vicious glance but
kept his mouth mercifully shut. VanderMeer finally emerged fully
from the organism. The part of his body that had been submerged
in it was now covered with a thick layer of yellowish slime,
various bits and pieces of the blob still embedded into it. He
looked more nightmarish than ever.
     "This guy walked straight out of a low©budget horror flick,"
Frianelli mumbled to himself, at once fascinated and disgusted by
the appearance of his former buddy. For a moment the three of
them stood motionless. Liberaciá¢án's voice finally broke the
spell.
 "Your friend has been unkind to the forest. Like the people
inside the thing. For them it's too late. At least your friend is
learning. There's still hope for him. I wish I could say the same
for you, but I'm not sure. Let's go." She started off, and they
followed her, unthinkingly. VanderMeer too joined in.
  Jim asked himself what could be happening within
VanderMeer's mind. How would the man evolve? Had they witnessed
only the beginning of a transformation process that would
ultimately culminate into something totally alien to them? Would
VanderMeer deteriorate even further, would he gradually lose
everything that made him human? Would he become unrecognizable in
the end, another addition to the ever©growing collection of new
creatures the forest was turning out? A former human, having lost
all links with his origins?
 Despite these soul©shaking encounters and his encroaching
doubts about this whole operation (how was it officially referred
to? To his utter amazement he appeared to have forgotten its code
name.) Jim tried to work up some enthusiasm for their trek to the
center of the Afflicted Area. He knew damn well they needed a
firm goal or they would be driven out of their minds. There was a
mission to be accomplished : that's what they had to keep in mind
constantly, if only to preserve their sanity. Or, for that
matter, their lives.
   That was the main reason why he desperately tried to shut
out all the doubts and questions that had started to plague him.
Grim but determined he continued on his way.
   As they grew hungry and thirsty Liberaciá¢án pointed out to
them what to look out for and what to ignore. Rather than simply
supplying them with what they needed she taught them to check out
the items themselves. Jim was pleased. He admired her way of
thinking. This was the correct way to acquire survival skills.
This girl was more than just a simple guide. She might well be
their ticket to a future that seemed to be turning bright in
comparison with the dark thoughts he had been harboring until
quite recently. So they might stand a decent chance after all.
 She told them to look for dense clumps of thick gray©tinged
rhombus©shaped leaves, squatted close to the ground in big
clusters, surrounded by a short, rigid, grass©like stubble.
Underneath they ought to find pinkish blob©like fruits in various
stages of development. They were supposed to pick the biggest
ones ; doing otherwise might disturb the whole breeding and
growing process. She showed them how to tear off lumps of the
fruits, which consisted of meaty substance and contained a high
degree of moisture. It was rather tasteless stuff, but in
sufficient quantities provided them with enough food and water to
survive. The stuff was quite nutritious, had no undesirable sideªeffects and was relatively easy to find.
      The only problem was monotony. She assured them there were
other edible things to be found in the forest, but there was no
way to teach them everything at once. Trying to find out on their
own, using the trial©and©error method, could not be recommended.
Error was more likely than success and could lead to instant
death, or could turn them slowly into something like VanderMeer
or worse. Some of the stuff in the forest was pretty weird or
even lethal. The mentioning of VanderMeer drew their attention to
his eating habits. They caught him trying out a variety of
things, some looking quite unedible to them. It didn't seem to
have any serious effects on him © as far as they could tell, his
condition being already pretty weird to start with. Still he kept
following them on their trek to Monrovia Base. They had no idea
what he would do once they got there.



Ã *)Ã13

     This had to be the place. Cynthia cast furtive glances all
around her. Then she sat back and checked. At her left, from this
vantage point, she saw a blindingly white marble sculpture,
representing a huge, coiled snake topped with a shaggy lion's
head. At her right, a glass statue of a voluptuous naked woman
sporting eight rows of breasts. Right in front of her she saw a
portico, a scaled down version of an ancient temple, its pillars
replaced by replicas of twentieth century guitar legend Jimi
Hendrix, ecstatically smiling as he struck a chord on his
stratocaster. And, as indicated, she appeared to be standing with
her back to a blank wall. Most of the elements of her
surroundings were no doubt holograms, which all things considered
was not such a bad thing. Now all she could do was wait. Probably
the guys she was to meet at this designated place were watching
her from a safe place, invisible from her position, waiting a
short time in order to find out if they could approach her in
all safety. Of course that turned out to be the case. Anything
even in the slightest suspicious could jeopardize the whole
agreement. She didn't have to wait long, though.
       With a flicker the portico in front of her disappeared, and
so did the sculptures at both her sides. So they had been holos
alright, which were now switched off, revealing the four people
who had been hiding behind the line of Hendrixes. Four typical
slum dwellers cautiously made their way toward her, proud and
streetwise looks on their faces. She greeted them casually,
locked eyes with the short guy up front who had to be the leader
of the gang. She quickly scanned him: malicious smile on a grubby
face, slim but lean frame, tattered but gaudy clothes. And the
three others: a broad©shouldered hunk towering over his cohorts,
bland expression, clearly more brawl than brains, dressed in
black; a short blonde girl, bare©breasted so as to proudly
display the tattoos her upper torso and arms were covered with,
especially the barbed wire her breasts were adorned with, tight
leather pants and bright red boots; finally a dark©skinned girl,
jet black hair hanging down to her waist, eyes scanning her with
a fiercely penetrating stare, the brains of this group if there
were any.
      "My name's Riff," the short guy said, smiling and thereby
revealing a set of uneven, yellowish teeth. Pointing at the tall
one, he continued, "This is Marshall Stack. We gave him that name
cause he's so tall and broad and always makes such a hell of a
noise." He sniggered, slapping his hand on his thighs, then
introduced the two girls. "This is Axe," nodding at the tattooed
one, "and this is our leading hacker lady Sick Joke."
  "Glad to meet you. My name's Cynthia. I hope we can strike a
deal here."
    "That's why we came here. Follow me inside." She followed
Riff into the building they had been standing in front of, which
had to be his headquarters. The blank wall must have disappeared
along with the other holos. The three others got in behind her.
The interior looked quite luxurious, but then probably most of
what she saw were holos too. Most of them were quite artsy, like
the naked (again!) woman graciously floating in the air, wantonly
stretching her arms and intermittently spreading her legs. There
was a desk with a computer terminal © not something she expected
Riff to have, but as he appeared to have hacker friends the
equipment could be real. She'd rather not know how the place
looked without all the holographic furniture.
  "Sit down," Riff invited her, indicating a comfy shapeªadapting swivel chair. As she lowered herself into it she felt
there was but a rickety wooden contraption underneath the holo
camouflage, and nearly slid off it. Big smiles appeared,
accompanied by chuckles. She had only herself to blame for her
clumsiness. She should have known what to expect.
      "Right," she said firmly, "let's get down to brass tacks.
I'm not sure if you people know anything about me©©"
   "Oops!" Riff exclaimed. "Your first blooper. I was waiting
for that one."
 "We have ways," the hacker girl said. Of course, she
thought. If this hacker girl was worth anything (and if she
wasn't she wouldn't have survived out here) they would have had
access to various databases, maybe even Eyescape Inc.'s personnel
database. They could lay hands on any information they needed,
the hacker girl's expertise and equipment permitting. They were
all sniggering and sneering now. Marshall Stack had positioned
himself behind the floating holo woman, and shoved his head
through her back so that his eyes and nose and twirling tongue
jutted out right above her vagina. He seemed to be enjoying this
a whole lot. None of the others took notice of it. They probably
were used to worse.
    "Right," Riff finally said, "let's really get down to brass
tacks then. We took your stuff. You want it back. Of course
there's a price to pay. What do you offer?"
    "A deal. A partnership. I think there's a lot at stake here
for both you and me. There's a number of things I'd like to do
for which I need help. And I think I'm in a position that could
be interesting to you."
        A frown creased Riff's forehead. He exchanged a quick glance
with Sick Joke. So she had been right: he was the leader, she the
brains. The other two were mere backdrops. Marshall Stack might
come in handy in case they had to put up a fight. What purpose
Axe could possibly serve was less clear.
      "Maybe you're right," Riff said. "You had anything in mind?
Tell me. I think we got something cooking here."
       She briefly sketched her plan, her background, her job at
Eyescape Inc., the questions that had arisen concerning the war
and the soldiers in the hospital, her ideas about the bioªtechnology business and the new©lifers' way of going about
things. Riff was silent for a while, then he again exchanged a
quick glance with Sick Joke.
   "Listen," he said. "Joke is gonna do some research. In the
meantime I'll show you something." As the girl got down to work
at her computer, Riff led the way through a wall she had supposed
was real, and she followed him into a section of the room that
turned out to be Riff's gang's treasure trove. He was beaming
with pride as he explained what was kept here.
 "Wonderslime," he said. "It's sure to be the next big
thing. And we'll make sure we'll ride the crest of the wave.
We're right on top, we must have gotten it first. Well, what do
you say?"
      She stared in disbelief at the newest source of income Riff
was preparing : vaguely human©looking clumps of organic tissue,
covered in shredded clothing and weird moss©like fluffy bits and
other less easily definable growths. They appeared to be faintly
fluorescent.
   "What the hell is this supposed to be?" she asked. "And what
did you call it? Wonderslime?"
 Riff chuckled uncontrollably. "Each product's gotta have a
brand name on the market," he explained smugly. "We managed to
lay our hands on these©©"
      "These what?" she interrupted him. All at once she had a
chilling sense of foreboding. She eyed the short man intently,
demanding a satisfying reply. He licked his lips, said:
        "A chopper crashed some time ago. Lots of stuff were
retrieved. People have used the engines and the board computer
and the whole mechanical framework to manufacture all sorts of
missiles and weaponry and funny gizmos. You must have seen some
of them come down at the other side. The chopper also carried
some wounded soldiers, fresh from the war zone. They were dead or
dying. We took 'em. Here they are. They're not really dead, but
they're not really alive either. You figure out what they are.
It's the fluffy shining ooze around them that interests us. Turns
out we can get work done on it. Grow it. Shape it. Make it fit
our needs. That's what Axe and Jigsaw are doing these days.
You'll get to meet Jigsaw soon. So now you know. Lady, you look
flabbergasted."
        "That's because I am. Hey, Riff, listen: I need to think."
     "We also need to talk some more. Isn't there a deal to
strike? Wasn't that what you were after?"
      "I was. And still am. And more so than ever before. By all
means count me in. But I have to do some serious thinking. I have
this feeling we're onto something big here. Something of gigantic
proportions."
  "Go ahead and think," Riff said. "We'll let Joke do some
more checking and we'll let you know if she comes up with
something. And we'll give you back your stuff in return for, ah,
certain favors. We'll talk about that. Well? You ready to go and
think?"
        It didn't really come as a surprise they wanted more than
just some money. Money wasn't exactly despised in Nowhere City,
but as the recession grew worse and living conditions harsher, it
became increasingly fashionable for people to sell their stuff in
trade for other goods or services. They tended to view this
barter system as more direct and more certain than regular money
which rapidly lost its value and was at times hard to buy
something with. No doubt Riff would appreciate her "services"
more than her money.
   She was allowed to go back, partially satisfied because
these people had been willing to form a partnership with her and
return her property, partially worried and even intrigued by the
tantalizing bits of information she had garnered. She had the
distinct feeling there were some major discoveries waiting just
around the corner. She couldn't wait to get there.
     Lather that day, at her I©Site office, she continued work on
her VRT, going over her assistants' work, suggesting rewrites and
correcting details, doing some major program writing of her own
and editing some finished parts. At the end of her work session
Gene dropped by, eager to get some news out of her. She still had
trouble accepting his new looks. His face didn't seem to belong
to him, it was a mask that had come to life and had
surreptitiously replaced the original face. Even his voice
sounded slightly different.
    "Did it work out alright this morning?"
        "I was lucky," she said. "Those bastards were willing to
sell me back everything. Money©wise it was okay. Thanks for
helping me on that score." She was happy with that part. Gene had
offered her to pick up the bill of the operation, and as Riff and
his cohorts hadn't insisted on too much money she rejoiced at the
idea of keeping some of it for herself. It might come in handy
one day. Anyhow it was nice to see Gene parting with some money
just for her sake. If only he knew! Yet she felt grateful. After
all Gene had been instrumental in making all this possible. She
didn't know how he had gone about it, whose services he'd had to
buy and at what price, but, more importantly, he'd managed to get
the job done, and done very well at that. Somehow he had found
out who was responsible for the break©in, and he had gotten in
touch with the gang. A meeting had been arranged. To Cynthia's
surprise, the bastards only wanted to talk to her directly. That
was fine with her : it would allow her to have complete control
over whatever happened.
        "I'm glad you'll have your stuff back," he said, smiling
contently. "The going is getting tough out there, isn't it? The
news mentioned some more social unrest. And there have been some
missiles again over here. Nothing serious, though. They're
embarrassing, but cause no serious trouble. They don't disturb
our daily lives. One newscaster spoke of "minor social upheavals
causing but faint ripples in society". Still, there's some talk
of security measures being heightened. But don't let that
interfere with your work. Ultimately that's what matters most."
        She agreed with him on that score : she wouldn't allow
whatever happened to interfere with what she was trying to do
here. Gene probably didn't realize the two of them had quite
different things in mind when it came to defining the job that
she was supposed to be doing.
  Later that night, she switched on her old TV set, so
obsolete and on the verge of breakdown that Riff's boys hadn't
even bothered to take it with them. The last few days she had
been watching the news with increasing interest. The war reports
were limited to the usual vague bits and pieces of "our boys
desperately trying to cope with serious difficulties in
obliterating the enemy, a task they would eventually accomplish
against all the odds." The newscaster added that viewers could
count on them for "further progress reports as major events
unfolded in the war zone and the combined enemy forces were
pushed further towards total oblivion." Meaning, she thought
grimly, either that there was little to say, or nothing they
were allowed to know.
  The next item on their list made her sit up and take notice.
"Growing social unrest is creating an atmosphere of insecurity in
the heart of some major urban centers," the newscaster
proclaimed. His face was replaced by images of a recent missile
attack launched by "poorly organized yet dangerous terrorist
groups in the slums area." A rapid succession of fleeting
glimpses of a dense crowd dispersed by a sudden missile attack,
people hurrying off in all directions, trampling victims
underfoot, fleeing at random. There were short closeups of
injured people sprawled on the pavement, faces contorted in
agony, then the camera cut to a wide©angle view of the scene of
the assault, and in all too short a moment she noticed some
greenish glimmering spots among the debris.
    The images were again replaced by the neswcaster, who
briefly summarized worsening living conditions in the slums area.
Food was being rationed, and food riots were becoming more and
more frequent; crime was rampant; law and order were concepts of
days gone by; the black market (in food and anything that could
be sold or swapped) was thriving to an unprecedented degree;
social unrest was taking on unsettling proportions. Cynthia
scarcely listened. Her thoughts were off and running in a totally
different direction. All at once a chilling realization had
dawned on her: Riff hadn't taken the dying soldiers just for the
hell of it. They weren't supposed to embellish his living
quarters. His type only took what could be sold. So what was Riff
selling? Hadn't he said his buddies were growing and shaping
things? Could there be any relation to the greenish stuff she had
just seen and Riff's new line of business, his "wonderslime" as
he so elegantly labeled it?
    This opened up whole new vistas of speculation. What was
this stuff, what would it do, how would it influence the current
course of events? Who was Riff selling it to and what was these
people's purpose? What did his buddies' work on the stuff amount
to? And how did all this tie into the whole situation, the War,
the bio©technology business and the social climate that was
developing, the dichotomy between the pauperized slums and the
city centers and their sybaritic new©lifers? There was a lot to
find out. She felt her job, her real job had only just begun.



Ã *)Ã14

     "Oh no, not again," Frianelli moaned. "Not another bunch of
weirdos out to strip us of what we've left and eager to tell us
their version of the absolute truth."
  "Come on, admit it. You relish these encounters. Actually
you were looking forward to this."
     "You're very funny, Jim. You'll end up a hopeless cynic like
me. Keep that in mind."
  "A fate worse than death. I'll agree with you on that
score. Listen."
        Liberaciá¢án was conferring in a language he couldn't
understand with some of the guys they had just run into. They had
to be some paramilitary group, as they wore uniform©like clothing
and carried old but efficient©looking weapons. They had eyed them
with interest, mild suspicion, had sneered at VanderMeer and
welcomed the girl. This seemed to be becoming a pattern.
       "They have an offer," Liberaciá¢án said after the discussion
was over. "You were lucky. You're no longer wearing your
uniforms, and nothing else indicates that you're on the other
side. They mistook you for possible allies."
   "So? We're invited to a party?" Frianelli sounded as if he
meant it.
      "In a sense. They said they could use a few men."
      "They can have VanderMeer."
    "I suggest you take this offer seriously. It'll be safer,
and easier too. It's better to continue your journey as part of a
group. They're going in the same direction, roughly speaking."
 "But," Jim said, "they're on the other side. We can't simply
throw in our lot with these guys. Aren't they the ones we're
supposed to be fighting?"
      "They are from your viewpoint. But one of the reasons I'm
here guiding you is to make sure you change your mind. You'll
have to join the other side one day anyhow, so©©"
      "Forget it."
   "©©why not do so right away?"
  "I said forget it."
   "You're a stubborn man, Jim. When will you open your eyes?
When will you understand? When will you admit you're on the wrong
side of the fence?" She shook her head, strings of black hair
falling down to obscure her forehead and eyes. Frianelli found it
necessary to add his comment.
  "Admit it, Jim. You're prejudiced. You came here©©"
    "Prejudiced?!"
 "©©with a frame of mind and outlook that were handed to you
by the authorities back home and you've never for a minute even
considered to look at them in an objective way, let alone a
critical way. You just swallowed it all, took everything at face
value, accepted it as the absolute truth. Doubt was furthest from
your mind. And even now you're refusing to even listen to this
girl. Maybe what she's saying is right, maybe it's not, but
you're not even willing to find out. Aw, come on, Jim, you could
at least give her the benefit of the doubt. Maybe you're right
after all, but what's wrong with checking it out?"
     Jim sighed, trying in vain to read Liberaciá¢án's expression
through the curtain of hair dangling in front of her face,
shifting his gaze to Frianelli's vivid eyes instead.
   "Well," he said, shrugging, "you've got a point there.
Alright, I'll think about it. I really will." He couldn't believe
he had said it. But then again what could he have said,
considering the situation they were in?
        They decided to join the group. It would be safer, and would
render their lives somewhat more comfortable. They would have
more variety as far as food was concerned, and their sheer living
conditions would improve. They could now sleep in a tent, spend
their days in a way that was a few steps closer to what could be
considered normal. The gang turned out to consist of Brazilian
political extremists who had fled their country and were out to
get their share in this, their new promised land, fighting
another holy war, battling another sworn enemy. Jim cursed
himself for lining up with them.
       As they continued their trek in the Brazilians' company, the
vegetation around them appeared to become increasingly unified,
giving the impression of being one giant multi©faceted organism
rather than a harmonic ecosphere consisting of a multitude of
species. Some of the creatures (or elements of the pan©organism)
could be either plants or animals. Jim and his friend were
particularly struck by anemone©like creatures sporting eyestalks
that peered at them as they passed by, whereas others waved about
tendrils ending in fingers eagerly groping for them. They avoided
these carefully, but VanderMeer rushed at them as if he had
spotted a long lost friend, grasped the tendrils with an
enthusiasm approaching sheer ecstasy, apparently exchanging
thoughts or feelings with these fellow forest dwellers. As they
released each other VanderMeer stepped back, and appeared
invigorated, flooded with energy and vitality. He locked eyes
with the two of them for the first time in days, was clearly
aware of their presence, but true contact still proved to be
impossible. The gap between them was widening. Jim often wondered
how VanderMeer would end up.
   Later, one evening Jim and Carlo Frianelli sat talking in
the gloom of oncoming twilight. A campfire between them would
have rendered the scene complete, only campfires weren't in
fashion over here. Somewhat off in the distance, barely
perceptible in the fading light, Liberaciá¢án was scurrying about,
half©naked, a sex©starved soldier's dream come true. Frianelli
suddenly shifted his gaze to Jim, broke the silence that had been
building up between them.
      "Tell me, Jim. You've been sleeping with her for the last
few days, you share a tent, you must know her better now. Is she
still the mystery she used to be?"
     "More so than ever before. She's too good to be true. Words
fail me to describe what I'm currently living. Hell, Carlo, if
only you knew©©"
       "Knock it off, Jim. No use spelling it out for me. What did
you say? Too good to be true? Who says she is?" A wide grin
appeared on his face, baring his teeth, eerily visible in the
twilight.
      "What the hell are you trying to say?"
 "Who says she's real, Jim? Maybe she's just a figment of
your imagination. Maybe you're still inhaling some hallucinogenic
spores. Remember those pink mushrooms? Who knows what we've got
in our systems right now. How can we know we're back in reality?
Admit it, Jim. She can't be real. Ignore her from now on. And
leave her to me." Frianelli shook with laughter, nearly lost
balance, slapped his thighs with uncontrollable glee.
  "No, seriously," Jim said, "I've been thinking along the
same lines. Earlier today we passed this grove, with heavy
foliage at all sides, layer upon dense layer of it, and I had
these brief glimpses of shapes appearing and dissolving within
the vegetation, mostly genitals coupling or about to couple. I
was thinking maybe my imagination had gone haywire. Maybe there
were vague shapes and I was interpreting them, seeing in them
what I wanted to see."
        "So this confirms my theory," Frianelli said, apparently
serious. It was hard to tell apart seriousness and mockªseriousness in his case, though. "I've seen lots of faces among
the leaves, staring at me, some with furious eyes, others like
begging for mercy or pleading for help. Maybe we've seen the same
things but interpreted them differently. You've been seeing
genitals, of course, ever since you sleep with Liberaciá¢án. I have
to stick to silly faces."
      "And no doubt they were making nasty remarks to you and
getting on your nerves and©©"
  "Hell, Jim, you've changed! You've developed a sense of
humor. This forest is really getting to you, buddy. You must by
now be the most drastically transformed creature walking around
here. Frankly, you scare me." Once again he erupted in wild
ebullient laughter. As he calmed down again, he picked up his
line of thought where he'd left it.
    "Seriously, Jim. I've been thinking. Consider this. You
know, back home, that our training VRTs had been tampered with.
Some of them were pretty warped. Fucked©up, over©the©top madcap
weirdness. Some of what we're witnessing here reminds me of those
things."
       "Meaning?" Was the man really serious this time around?
        "Suppose, just suppose, that we're stuck in one of those
"infiltrated" VRTs? In reality we're still in training, we're
exposed to this VRT some whacked©out hacker has been fooling
around with and it's distorted our sense of time and everything
and we can't even be sure if we're in it or not and if we'll ever
be able to get back out of it again."
  "You mean©©" Jim's voice trailed off. Incredulous, he stared
Frianelli in the eyes. Could the man possibly be serious?
        "Yeah! Yeah! None of this is real! It's all part of the
program. This is a looped program and we're stuck in it. We'll
never live to be unplugged. We're done with. Game over. No
refund. We hit rock bottom." He shook his head as if in despair.
"Maybe I'm not real myself. This hacker wrote me into the
program, fed me to your imagination. In that case you made me up,
Jim. I'm a product of your mind. You must be really sick to do
this to yourself, you're really beyond help. Yet in a sense you
must be relieved to hear that I don't exist."
  "Very true. I'm glad to hear some good news for a change.
You can be quite comforting at times, Carlo."
  "Call me Giancarlo." Jim warily stared him into the eyes,
feverishly glowing. Why did Carlo come up with all this
gibberish? Whacky humor might be a fine way to relieve tension,
but this guy didn't know where to draw the line.
       "You're out of your mind. Pull yourself together man. This
despicable nonsense will lead us nowhere."
     "Right, Jim!" Frianelli had grabbed him by the arm, brought
his face unpleasantly close to his, spoke in clipped words.
"We're soldiers, remember? We'll have to fight our way out of
this. We'll kick some serious ass. They can't keep us down. We'll
show 'em. As far as we're concerned this war has only just
begun."
        "You're switching moods easily, buddy. Suddenly you feel
part of the War Force again, all your doubts dispelled."
       "Not at all. You don't understand. We have to fight against
what used to be our side. As the girl told you. I think she's
right, Jim. I'm convinced."
   "I have this feeling you've been convinced right from the
very start. You've had doubts ever since you joined the War
Force. I still don't understand why you joined for that matter."
       "Sure, I had my doubts. I always had, about everything. So
call me a cynic. Call me whatever you like. It doesn't change the
fact that I have my convictions too, and right now I'm convinced
we were on the wrong side and so we have to switch sides and pick
up the fight. I'm positive, Jim." He let go of his arm.
        "And just a few minutes ago you weren't even sure if any of
this was real. Now suddenly all is clear and you've made up your
mind." He shook his head, rose to his feet. Time to get to the
tent he shared with the girl. It was getting dark. The girl was
nowhere to be seen. No doubt she had retired to the tent already.
As he trudged back in the direction of their makeshift camp he
thought about Frianelli. Was the man a mad prankster? Or their
own homegrown philosopher? Or was he simply having fun? Whatever
the case may be, night would bring rest and peace. At least they
had achieved that much by joining this gang.



Ã *)Ã15

      "Listen," Gene said, "I have important news for you. Jordan
Haggles sent for me the other day. I had to meet him at
Molinari's."
   "Of course. Where else?"
       "He's worried by what's recently been happening. He seems to
think it might actually grow even worse and he feels our current
security precautions are no longer sufficient. So we'll have
higher security measures, and closely related to that, all
executives will be more involved in these new policies. Somehow
he feels Eyescape Inc. may become threatened or something. He
says that any social disruption tends to be very bad for
business."
     "Not to mention his appetite."
 "That means that we'll all have less time to deal with day
to day business. So you'll have a lot more freedom as far as your
work is concerned. We just won't have the time to supervise
everything as planned. Haggles was hoping you'd have enough sense
of responsibility to carry on with the job as if nothing had
changed."
      "He can count on me."
  "He still intends to plug into your VRT as soon as the rough
cut is finished, though. Don't think he's lost all interest.
Anyway, I also have news of a more personal nature. Soon we'll be
able to do something I've been looking forward to for quite some
time now. You see, my wife is seriously considering a sex change
for the standard six month tryout period. During that period I'm
entitled to legally live together with another woman, provided I
don't have a sex change myself. I can assure you I have no plans
in that direction. So expect me to renew my offer to you real
soon. And, need I repeat it, this is strictly legal."
  "I'll think about it," she said. And I'll turn it down, she
added in thoughts. She had reached a point where staying in
Nowhere City's rim area had become absolutely vital to her plans.
Relocating to the City Center, with Gene or elsewhere, would
sever her links with Riff's gang, and she would be needing them.
Right now she had to keep a foot firmly planted in both worlds if
her plans were to have any chance at success. And those plans
were unfolding fast.
   The news about decreasing control and supervision was more
than welcome. It would make it easier to do all sorts of stuff on
the side, use the I©Site's facilities for her own ambitions
without anybody noticing. She continued the day's work with
exceptional enthusiasm. Her assistants kept throwing astounded
glances in her direction. They had never seen her this cheerful
at work.
       She decided to have lunch with Alan Lundlow in the I©Site
cafetaria, mainly to pry some more useful information out of him.
They hadn't been in close contact for a few days and he seemed to
welcome the occasion.
  "Hey, I have good news for you," he said in between bites of
the synthetic but tasty food that was served here. "I'll have my
eyes replaced. I really got bored with them."
  "You're not the only one."
     "I knew you were going to say that. I've been through this
period where I really went for over the top garishness, but
somehow I got tired of all that. So the eyes are definitely on
their way out. I'll also have a number of other changes done. I'm
considering a sex change. That seems to be getting real popular.
And I'm thinking of some major internal revamping as well. I'll
keep you posted. Anyway, how's your project coming along? I
haven't been able to keep track of it these last few days as I'm
working on a stunning array of projects right now and I'm having
some trouble keeping on schedule."
     "It seems to be working out nicely. I have some really
competent assistants here. There's no way I can take all the
credit myself."
        "Still, it is your brainchild. They're just filling in the
details, doing the dirty part of the job."
     "I've been told you guys would be getting even more work.
Security precautions because of what's been happening on the
street. Don't you think they're panicking? Is everything about to
collapse at our feet?" She lowered her gaze to her plate, so
Lundlow wouldn't see in her eyes she had more than casual
interest in this matter. She spooned up some more food, eagerly
awaiting his reply.
    "True enough," he said, swallowing another bite and washing
it down with his favorite fake©wine. "Believe me, Haggles is very
upset, not so much because a missile came down not too far from
the I©Site, but because one nearly came down on Molinari's roof."
      "I see. I should've known his stomach was involved. If his
food supply gets disturbed all hell will break loose."
 "There's a lot more to it than that, baby, believe me. Let
me tell you, Haggles is mainly worried because of the nature of
the things that are coming down. I'm not sure I can tell you
this, although it's not strictly classified material©©"
        "Don't worry. I know what you're referring to. They've
changed their approach, haven't they? They've added some spices
to their brew?" They locked eyes now. She still loathed the
hideous constructs that passed for his eyes. His hand, grasping
the spoon, halted in mid©gesture.
      "I guess Gene told you," he said, lowering his voice to a
whisper, as if afraid of eavesdroppers. "You know, what upset
Haggles is not that a missile came down near Molinari's, but that
as it exploded it blew a host of organic particles in all
directions. These came down on walls, on the pavement, on
vehicles passing by, also on people who happened to be around.
There was no way to remove them. They quickly grew into moss©like
patches, especially the ones that had landed upon life©forms,
like trees or people. Trees or shrubs were quickly taken over by
the rapidly growing stuff. Patches close to one another threw out
tendrils and made contact, melding into a network. It's a highªspeed imperialist parasite and it's hungry. We're not sure what
it is, whether this is but the first of a new line of weapons
coming from the slums and where this new trend will lead to."
  "How did they get their hands on this?"
        "We're not sure. Haggles told us bio©weapons are being
manufactured in the Afflicted Area, bu so far only prototypes
have been made. How did these slums types get them? Did they
somehow, by pure luck, stumble onto the process to grow and shape
them? Haggles appears to believe this. He says they may not know
what they have and what we're seeing is just a load of random
offshoots, not properly prepared and bound to wither away soon.
There's little reason for panic at this stage, and most people
carry on as if nothing happened. Still Haggles wants to play it
safe. He knows all too well what's at stake here and isn't
willing to take any chances. His main fear is that somehow these
illegal users of military applications of bio©catalyst
technology, as he officially refers to them, will cunningly
acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to build an arsenal of
these bio©weapons. He admitted that wasn't very likely, but, he
said, you should never underestimate your enemy. He told us this
looked like a harbinger of ominous things and he hoped he was
dead wrong."
    "So that's why security will be reinforced? Just in case
these things keep coming?"
     "Yep. And they're planning more direct actions in the slums
area itself too. There's serious talk of a cleaning©up operation
that is to descend down there and round up all the criminal
elements and remove the cause of all this trouble at root level.
There's also talk of posting more guards around the borderline.
They're definitely determined to make a nice clean sweep."
     She knew there had to be a connection with Riff's
"wonderslime" business. She would check that out tonight; she was
supposed to meet him in a sleazy bar halfway between her
apartment and his headquarters, a place called Mind's I. She had
never heard about it. It probably didn't exist as such. She would
find out soon enough.
  She spent the rest of the day working feverishly. She did
the usual amount of editing her assistants' material, giving
instructions and doing some writing herself. Some of the program
writing was preliminary work for her own project, totally
unrelated to the VRT ad she was supposed to exclusively
concentrate her efforts on. She was reasonably sure, based on
what she had just learned, that this unofficial work would go
undetected.
    Later that night she set out to meet Riff. She followed the
instructions she had been given, and arrived at Mind's I without
running into trouble. That alone was reason for joy. The place
was by no means a sleazy bar; it was merely dressed up like one,
holo©wise. Mind's I turned out to be a damp bunker©like hideout,
crammed full of an intricate set of holos giving the place the
appearance of a shabby honky©tonk, down to the tiniest details.
There was a lot of blue smoke swirling lazily around, ashtrays
brimming with cigarette butts were scattered all over the place,
and a bartender rigorously going through a series of motions over
and over again was the sole representative of the human race,
holo division. Only two real people were present to greet her :
Riff and the dark©haired hacker girl Sick Joke.
        "Welcome to Mind's I," Riff said, inviting her in with mockªgallantry. "Allow me to buy us the first round of drinks." He
chuckled deeply, unmindful of the fact that he was the only one
to appreciate the humor. The holo bartender ignored the order and
stubbornly carried out his programmed activities. It must take a
hell of a lot of energy to keep all this running © but then the
energy was probably acquired in the same not©very©legal way as
the equipment.
 "Joke did some solid research," he continued, suddenly
serious. "And she came up with a lot of interesting material. A
lot was just confirmation of what we already guessed and feared.
Some stuff was new but neatly tied into what we already knew.
There was some stuff that came really out of the blue. And we did
some digging into your files too, but found nothing alarming or
unsettling. As far as we're concerned you're known property, and
the deal we struck still stands firm."
 "That's just fine. So what's the news?"
        "I was able to manoeuvre my way into the Silverwing hospital
database," the girl said, "and checked out on what you told us.
Turns out this is mostly a place for new©lifers who want their
systems reworked. Apart from that it's a regular hospital for
middle©class city center inhabitants, who can only afford
standard medical care. Recently they've added a third category of
guests, the ones you saw being shipped in. I found this hospital
is only one of many that have been appointed as overflow hospital
for war victims. Apparently there's an ever©increasing stream of
War Force types that have been exposed to a new line of bioªweapons in the Afflicted Area."
    "And they can only be treated in hospitals that cater to
new©lifers who make use of the same bio©technology but for
different reasons?"
    "Yeah, at least in theory. The reason only new©lifers make
use of it is that only they can afford it. This new bio©thing is
expensive like hell. Judging from their files most of the
troopers have middle class origins. Only those with regular
injuries can afford to be treated. The majority of them are
pretty much left to their own devices. No money, no treatment.
Everything's limited : time, equipment, surgeons and personnel
with the required qualifications. These are dealt out to the
highest bidders, and the new©lifers aren't content with a few
slices of the pie. They insist on having the entire pie. That's
the rule of the game. And the troopers are the losers of the
game."
 "You mean they could be treated?"
      "If they had the funds, yeah. If they could pay as much, or
preferably more than the average new©lifer, most of them would
receive proper treatment. That's the way these hospitals operate.
The poor devils would survive, if not totally cured, depending on
the seriousness of their injuries."
    "You mean they don't survive?"
 "Most of them don't. So, in case you had been wondering, it
didn't make any difference when we captured a few of them. They
would have died anyway. So we're not responsible for their
deaths. Doesn't that feel great for your conscience?" Her smile
bared a set of ruined teeth, marring an otherwise pretty face.
 "Is there anything we can do about it?" She was adamant.
This whole system had to be wiped out. Somehow she had the
feeling she was ideally placed to do that, being employed at
Eyescape Inc. and having Nowhere City contacts like Riff. Her
power as such wasn't all that overwhelming, but she could serve
as a catalyst in the process. That's a nice touch, she thought,
viewing myself in those terms. Wouldn't this qualify for pun of
the week?
      "You gonna rattle and shake till it all drops at your feet?"
Riff asked, smiling his wry smile again. "Good luck, lady. You're
gonna need it."
        "I was hoping you would offer some help."
      "Help? I take things as they come, lady. Business is good
and getting better everyday. Wonderslime customers are queuing up
in front of my door. You wanna start a revolution? What's in it
for us?"
       "Riff is very much a short©term thinker," the hacker girl
said. "It's best if he sticks to the business part. You want some
healthy subversion and sabotage and messing around in worldwide
cyberspace? Count on us. We're on your side. Me and my friends
have done some pretty decent work lately. You interested?"
     "I'm not," Riff said, and left. There was no way he could be
serious about this. Probably he wanted the girl to take care of
this part of the deal and showing disinterest was better for his
image than flatly admitting this aspect was better left to the
dark©haired girl. As he left he switched off the holos and the
bartender flickered out of existence, along with all the rest of
what turned a cold, empty hideout into Mind's I.
       "As I said," the girl continued, "we've been very active.
We've even managed to infiltrate the training VRTs used for fresh
War Force recruits, not to mention a host of other networks. One
friend of mine, a guy called Neurodancer, has been especially
successful. You'd be amazed to know how deep we can strike. We
must have made a lot of people angry, driven a good bunch of them
stark raving mad and totally pissed off the rest. So if you have
any plans along this line, we'll gladly supply you with ideas and
suggestions and even extend a helping hand."
   "As a matter of fact I had been thinking along these lines,
and frankly, I've started work already on my own dirty plans.
Some help would be welcome, of course."
        "I have an idea. I'll give you an example of something we've
been working on, just to get the feel of it. It's a military
training VRT that we've adapted. It's not yet finished, so it
will end abruptly, but you'll find that quite merciful. I'll pass
you a disk. You can use parts of the program if you like. Let me
know wground to a halt. The lights had gone
out. The sickening bulge on the riser that was Haggles stirred
back into life, weakly attempting to crawl back onto his knees.
Then the video circuit was cut off and the image went blank.
   Sick Joke turned to Cynthia, triumph glittering in her eyes.
"Game over," she said. "Care for another try?"
 "I suggest we wait till they've rebuilt the place," she
said. "In the meantime I'll get behind my own little games. At
least Haggles has now had an introduction to the main course
that's awaiting him."
  "I'm sure he would appreciate your imagery," Joke said. She
switched off her computer, ready to discuss some more plans and
discoveries.







18

        "Here we are then," Liberaciá¢án had said with a sense of
finality, as if they had arrived at their ultimate destination.
To Jim it looked like any other of the villages they had passed
through on their journey.
      "We're not going any further for now," the girl had
explained. "We're close to the center of the Afflicted Area now.
This is where I wanted to bring you. If your eyes aren't opened
here, they never will and all will have been in vain."
 "You make it sound like a fairy tale," Frianelli had
interrupted. "This place doesn't feel like being next door to the
war zone. What about giving us some solid explanation? Aren't we
entitled to know what all this was about, this whole journey,
your decision to join us, which brought my friend Jim here a lot
more fun than me, and now your merrily leading us into this
umpteenth village as if it were the biggest holiday resort
around. Care to explain, Liberaciá¢án? Please?" There was genuine
emotion in his voice. Jim was surprised. Did the man have a soul
after all?
     She had replied she had to talk to the village people first,
and had returned with a man she had introduced to them as Dr.
Dressler, a civilized looking man in his late forties whose
presence here was uncharacteristic, to say the least. He did not
seem to fit in with any of the various types they had encountered
so far.
        "This young lady told me you needed some orientation, some
background information enabling you to fulfill the tasks you were
supposed to see to. May I suggest you join me poolside for dinner
and conversation? I will see to it that you get everything you
require. Follow me." The man had spoken purely British English in
soft inflections, carefully selecting his words. It was clear he
was an intellectual, a scientist perhaps. It was totally unclear
how he had ended up in this godforsaken hellhole. Hopefully they
were about to be told, and this time by a reliable source of
information.
   "Poolside" turned out to be a rather euphemistic expression
for a handful of rickety chairs and wobbly stools next to a small
artificial pond, whose surface was covered with a greenish layer
of floating fluff. Every now and then gentle stirrings could be
detected in the drab water. This had to be the Forest equivalent
of a cozy corner. Dressler kindly invited them to sit down,
looked them silently in the eyes for half a minute or so, as if
hoping this would lend him the air of a keen observer of all
things human, then finally spoke.
      "I have been told you are former War Force soldiers, so I
take it you have had some briefing with regard to the situation
in this part of the world. However, I must hasten to add that
whatever you have been told was probably somewhat removed from
reality or at best seriously incomplete, as you may have noticed
already. Allow me to introduce myself, as this will already
answer some of your questions, I suppose. I am Dr. Anthony
Dressler, a former scientific staff member of Monrovia Base's
Research and Development Department. As you may have gathered
from my presence here, I have decided to give up that position
and to join the resistance. I will tell you how I grew
disenchanted with my former situation in a minute. There is so
much to tell. My main problem is not so much what to tell you but
rather where to start. Could you by any chance offer any
suggestions?"
  "Tell us what the bio©catalysts really are," Jim said.
"We've been told many explanations by as many people. We'd like
to know the truth at last."
    Dressler sighed, as if already weary of the conversation.
After some deep breaths he mustered the courage to continue.
   "The truth. I should have known you would ask for the
impossible. What makes you think there is such a thing as the
truth? Still, I will attempt to answer your question. The soªcalled bio©catalysts are actually byproducts of the metabolism of
a group of new plant life©forms which originated in the heart of
the Afflicted Area, as it came to be called. Their origins are
rather unclear. Some claim it is a natural mutation, others that
radioactive contamination or chemical waste deposits caused the
mutation, or that it is the result of an experiment in biological
warfare gone awry. One crackpot theory has it that they originate
from another planet. Some of my colleagues maintained this theory
could not be entirely ruled out, although I never found any
indication pointing towards it. The truth, insofar as there is
one, is probably to be found somewhere in the middle of this crop
of theories. It may be a natural mutation influenced or speeded
up by a variety of other factors. We have never found any solid
evidence for one single theory. Different sets of data pointed
towards different theories. An additional difficulty was that all
these "new" specimens kept changing. Evolution is taking place
here at an unprecedented pace. It is simply impossible to keep
track of it all, especially as scientific research had to be
carried out in a less than ideal situation. There is a war going
on here, remember? You should. You were part of it not too long
ago. And will be again soon, but on the other side I hope. Did
that answer your question?"
    "I guess it did," Jim said, barely satisfied. "What do these
things really do?"
     "Ah," Dressler said. "I suppose you must have encountered
quite a few examples of their effects, both at home and over
here. The bio©catalysts influence all biological functions of the
life©forms they come in touch with. As they are spread widely
throughout this forest the transformation process is proceeding
equally fast. In its raw form, this results in pretty random
transformations, both in the afflicted creatures and in their
offspring. Many of these "new" species are one©shots. They cannot
reproduce and are at once the first and the last generation of
their evolutionary branch. The changes may be beneficial as well
as lethal. They kill off a fair number of plants and animals they
are introduced to. Others live on in their changed fashion, some
of them produce offspring, only some of which is itself livable
and fertile. The interesting thing is that the effects of the
bio©catalysts, such as rapid cell growth, cell differentiation,
regeneration, lowering or heightening or abolition of all sorts
of thresholds, can be treated, shaped, pushed in a certain
direction. This is both done by us and by the people who live
here."
 "That was another question of mine," Jim interrupted. "These
new natives in this forest."
   "Patience, patience, dear chap. Allow me to show you an
example of one of my creations I was able to take with me when I
left Monrovia Base." He produced a big ladle©shaped utensil and
dipped it into the pond, stirring its tranquil surface into
ripples and breaking up the greenish fluffy carpet floating on
top of it. He slowly moved the big spoon back and forth till he
appeared to have caught something, and brought it back up along
with its prey. "We called it a fishard," he explained, smiling
proudly. "It has fish as well as lizard elements along with a few
things we added for good measure. It is a perfect example of how
beneficial the effects of bio©catalysts can be rendered. This
creature is actually quite extraordinary. Its function will
become clear to you in a second. Allow me to demonstrate it to
you."
  Gently he scooped the fishard out of the spoon, a composite
creature with a very large, bloated underbelly. It wriggled in
his hand, but did not give the impression of offering serious
resistance. With his other hand Dressler ripped off a slice of
the white underbelly and ate it, savoring it as if it were a rare
delicacy, eyes closed in gastronomical bliss. He swallowed,
licked his lips, tore off another slice of underbelly, and
offered it to Jim, who accepted it after a moment's hesitation.
Its taste was absolutely exquisite. Frianelli was also offered a
slice, and was equally pleased with its qualities. The creature
did not seem to feel pain as slices of its underbelly were ripped
off. Dressler noticed how they stared at the wriggling fishard
and hastened to explain.
       "It doesn't suffer any pain. It merely feels uncomfortable
in my hand and wishes to wriggle free from my grip. All it wants
is to be returned to its pond where it will instantly start work
on regenerating the parts we have just removed from its belly.
You see, this creature was genetically engineered in our
laboratories using the bio©catalyst option. The fishard was
devised as a food©provider and I can safely say that it is a
complete success. It was engineered in such a way that its
underbelly expands into layers and layers of meat with a high
nutritional value, and quite tasty to boot. The layers were to be
easily removable without harming the creature in any way, as you
have been able to observe."
    Dressler allowed the fishard to glide back into its pond,
where it instantly disappeared under the surface after which the
ripples died away and tranquillity was restored.
       "When parts of its underbelly have been removed, the
creature regenerates those parts quickly, thanks to a speeding up
of its metabolism. Of course it has to be in an environment where
the necessary raw materials are present in ample quantities. That
is why this fishard here is kept in a pond where all organic
waste is dumped into. A small village could live on what a
pondful of fishards could produce. Do you realize, gentlemen,
what this means? This wriggling lil' fellow with the oversize
underbelly is the answer to the world's food shortage problem. At
least, in theory. Unfortunately, current reality being what it
is, the bio©catalyst©exploitation industry is run by a handful of
business monoliths catering to the highest©bidding customers. It
is a well known fact that the world's starving masses have a
rather poor cashflow situation. And it is equally well known that
today's jet©set, or New Lifers as they choose to call themselves,
have more pressing needs for the marvels of modern bioªtechnology. So all the healing and regeneration and modification
techniques are used to please these people's whims and follies.
Whereas people with more urgent needs..." His voice trailed off.
Dressler shook his head.
       "Speaking of other people," Jim said, "what happened to the
natives?"
      "I take it you mean the original natives in Central Africa?
Well, various things happened to them, and none of these were
good things. The original population was decimated by AIDS and
other killer diseases following in its wake, by a long period of
drought, by countless civil wars and harsh political and
economical regimes. As conditions worsened most of the remnants
fled to North and South Africa or Asia Minor. Many tried to flee
to Western Europe or America but met with serious resistance.
Then, of course, the appearance and rise of the bio©catalystªdriven transformation started attracting flocks of "new natives"
to the Afflicted Area as they came to be called."
      "And it also attracted the business world."
    "It did, but these companies did not simply want their share
of the crop. They wanted total control of the area and its
products. It soon became evident that war would be inevitable.
The companies which had set up research and development
facilities over here lobbied a War Force into existence to fight
the plethora of irregular armed forces that had by then
manifested themselves to claim what they considered theirs. The
rest is history. As a matter of fact, you are part of that
history."
      "How do these new natives survive over here? Conditions must
be pretty rough?" Frianelli put in.
    "They learned to live with their new environment by using
the time©honored trial©and©error method. That is how they
discovered what to eat and what not, which plants had healing
powers and which were lethal, and so on. Of course, especially in
the early days, there was a price to pay. Many lost their lives,
and many more their minds. Soon however a new folklore had
developed, which is changing as this forest is changing. And the
knowledge was adapted to their needs. As foreign investors jumped
onto the bandwagon and the war broke out to protect the research
and development facilities in the center of the area, the
knowledge was used to devise new©style biological weapons. Both
sides did, actually, but the bio©weapons of the forest dwellers
were darker, harsher, more unpredictable and are taking a heavy
toll on the War Force. Isn't one of your friends a victim of one
of these weapons? I have seen him lumbering around. Poor fellow.
I am afraid there is nothing you can do for him. Or, in a certain
sense, there is. You could join us. Actually I urge you to do so.
That is why the girl led you here, as you must have gathered by
now."
  "You'll have to come up with some really convincing
arguments there," Jim said.
    "Oh, I will. I most certainly will. And I will introduce you
to a few others who can even present you with considerably more
eloquent arguments. But let me tell you this. I have no problem
with Eyescape Inc. and their ilk exploiting this fascinating new
bio©technology for the sake of a happy few. What bothers me is
that they want all of it. There is no need for them to do so.
There is enough for everyone. They do not understand this or do
not wish to understand it. Maybe they are under the impression
that a total monopoly is the only way to guarantee they will stay
in business and maintain their leading position. Whatever the
case may be, I find the current situation utterly disgraceful and
absolutely unacceptable. As far as I am concerned it is the other
side which represents true humanity, slipshod and rabble©rousing
and uncivilized as they may seem. This war must come to a halt,
gentlemen. I am counting on you. This cannot go on."
   There was silence for a moment. Then Jim asked, "What made
you defect?"
   "I chose to leave my position after a personal experience. I
had been growing increasingly disenchanted with the whole system,
and this experience turned out to be the straw that broke the
camel's back." Dressler sighed, looked Jim straight in the eye
for a moment, then shifted his gaze to Frianelli, and continued
in a calm voice.
       "I have a younger brother called Fred who had volunteered
for the War Force. He was like you, in many ways. Eager to fight
for the good cause, swallowing whatever they told him.
Enthusiastic, uncritical, naive. But who could blame him? Most
people with our background tend to believe what they like to
hear. Even I did, in days gone by, although a scientist is
supposed to have a critical mind and to stick to the scientific
method of empirical proof and so forth and so on. Anyway, what is
more important is that Fred's luck ran out sooner than any of us
could have thought. Does the name of Abidjan Base ring a bell
with you?"
     "It sure does," Jim said. "Abidjan Base was one of the first
War Force Bases to be wiped out by guerrilleros. That was just
before we joined. Actually, it was a decisive factor. It had a
lot of consequences in a variety of fields. Due to it, the then
Minister of Defense saw his power greatly©©"
  "I am very much aware of all that, Jim. There is no need for
a lecture on recent history. The reason why I brought up the
first major defeat of the War Force was because my brother was
there at the time. He must have been one of the first victims of
the bio©weapons the guerrilleros had started to breed. We had
been able to stay in relatively close contact, and thanks to what
he had learned from me Fred had a fairly decent knowledge of the
whole bio©catalyst concept and all its ramifications. So he knew
what he had been exposed to and he also knew there were
techniques and enhanced methods that could cure him. He was flown
back home along with the other injured soldiers, taken to a
military hospital, only to discover that they stood but little
chance to get cured. The army had by then been largely
privatized, and its medical wing completely so. The booming bioªtechnology business had seriously invested in the hospital sector
for obvious reasons and by then controlled most of it.
 "It turned out to be a question of money. Anybody could get
proper treatment, provided he could afford it. In this respect
the soldiers were not in league with the emerging class of "newªlifers" who used the endless possibilities of state©of©the©art
bio©technology for their own purposes. So the wounded soldiers
who were sent back in ever greater numbers received only firstªline treatment, "time and funds permitting", and few received
proper care. I have not heard from Fred for a while now. I
suppose that he is either dead or dying, although the knowledge
and skills to bring him back in near perfect shape are readily
available."
    "What got your brother?" Jim asked. "Any clue?"
        Dressler nodded. "He must have been exposed to a brand of
altered mushroom spores. I have seen them and their victims on
various occasions afterwards. The spores encapsulate themselves
into a human body, considering it to be breeding ground. They
totally engulf the host's body, step by step, take over, finally
gobbling it up as they start their own mushroom cycle. I am
certain a way could have been devised to spark the healing and
regenerating process. Usually, however, the doctors limited
themselves to amputating the afflicted body parts without thereby
stopping the infection. What can I say? I turned away in disgust
as things got worse. And so here I am now." He swallowed, not
without some difficulty, and rose to his feet.
 "That will do for now. I no longer feel like talking. I want
to be alone for a while. Go look for the girl. She was busy
rounding up some more people she wanted you to see. What did you
say her name was?"
     "Liberaciá¢án. At least that's what she called herself."
       "Typical. They never use their real names to strangers.
Superstition. These are simple folk. Very much into symbolism.
Liberaciá¢án, yes indeed. But go now. Leave me for a while, if you
please. There will be ample opportunity to talk some more later
on. Bye." He trudged off, glumly. The recollections must have
flooded back with an intensity too searingly hot to bear.








19

   Hell had to be a nicer place than this, Cynthia thought, as
she looked down on the máálááe from her high and well©barricaded
vantage point. It had been Riff's idea to take shelter in a place
he knew that was both safe and well©situated where they could
keep track of what was happening. And right now quite a lot was
happening.
     It hadn't been a total surprise, of course. There had been
talk of Special Forces units to be sent out on a sweep through
Nowhere City to restore law and order and to round up a number of
key troubleshooters. Poverty©propelled 'bio©terrorism', as it had
been labelled, was causing too much unrest and had to be stopped.
Earlier this evening, around nightfall, Riff had come down to
Cynthia's apartment to tell her it would be wiser not to stay
there. He knew a safer place where they could spend the night and
watch proceedings. Anyway, they had a lot of things to discuss.
"It'll be just you and me and Sick Joke," he had said. "The
others will either be hiding elsewhere or be taking part in the
festivities."
  "Why aren't you taking part yourself?" she had asked.
"Aren't you an active, card©carrying revolutionary?"
   He had grinned and replied, "I'm a survivor."
  They had ensconced themselves in Riff's Palace. Night had
come. An unnatural calm had descended in the streets.
Preparations were in full swing. The coming of the Special Forces
units apparently wasn't a surprise to anyone. People here might
be running out of lots of things, but information wasn't one of
these.
        Then all hell had broken loose. The streets had been filled
with people and vehicles and machines within seconds. The
quietness had been shattered. At first the three of them had
limited themselves to staring silently at what was going on,
trying to keep track of it all and to understand the rules of the
game.
  It was hard to adequately describe this battle. It reminded
her strongly of some of those artsy war VRTs she had plugged into
a few years ago, when there had been a sudden upsurge in that
line of work. She had never contributed to that particular field,
preffering to stick to what she could do best, but she had
plugged into a fair number of them out of professional interest.
If this had been a VRT she would have congratulated its creator
for his bold inventiveness : it had a lot of elements all
previous work in the genre lacked.
     For instance, it was tricky for her to find out what was
really there and what was a holo. Holos seemed to be a key
element in the battle. The Special Forces troopers were facing
exactly the same problem. Inexplicable, she thought. They should
have known what they were up against. They knew about holos. They
had also seen the bio©weapons in the City Center. Maybe it was
the combination of these two unfamiliar adversaries with
traditional armed opponents that proved to be too much for them.
Whatever the case may be, this was not an uneven battle. She
doubted there would be winners or losers, as far as she could
determine the course the fight was taking.
     Nowhere City's irregular army had brought its entire
arsenal. Holo walls and barricades flickered on and off,
appearing and reappearing in different spots, so that even the
general layout of the area was no longer a certainty. Tanks and
armor©plated vehicles carefully picked their way through this
ever shifting maze, at times uselessly avoiding a hologram, at
other times driving straight into a solid wall. A host of
cyberpets and creatures, some holos, some real, scurried across
the streets, attacking (or walking straight through) anyone who
crossed their path. Occasionally a burning man could be seen,
writhing and thrashing underneath his shroud of flames. Cynthia
wasn't sure that all of them were holos.
       Yet she had the distinct feeling that the holos and
cyberpets were only there to add flavor to the game. They merely
created a fitting atmosphere for the real weapons to shine in all
their splendor : a wide variety of bio©weapons was being put to
use here, bred from Riff's 'wonderslime' and other dealers'
products who had apparently set up a similar business. It was
definitely the onslaught of this transformed plant©life that did
the most effective job here.
   Riff's thoughts must have been running along the same lines,
as he started speaking in a soft voice, without taking his eyes
off the spectacle below.
       "I sold lots of that stuff, an amazing amount really. And
I'm not the only one dealing this kind of stuff. It's a booming
market. Who knows what it will lead to, where all this will end.
What did we set in motion? Well, actually we didn't. Somebody
else did and we just took some of it. Axe and her friend have
been doing a superb job. Brilliant ideas, fast thinking, smoothly
carried out. It's miraculous stuff, really. Have you noticed,
down there, what it can do, how it adapts, how it appears to lead
a life of its own? It seems to nurture ambitions of its own too.
They seem to have lost control of it. Had to work too fast,
couldn't do the job properly. Or maybe it's impossible to control
in this raw shape we're breeding it in. Axe told me she didn't
really have enough of it to do decent work with. We don't have
lots of time and facilities and have to make a quick buck. So we
just improvised and went ahead and sold as much as we could
without thinking too much. No wonder some of that stuff out there
and in the Center got berserk and totally fucked up. Now look at
that. Just look at that!" He pointed downwards, and both Sick
Joke and Cynthia craned their necks to see what had caught his
attention.
     At their left, at an intersection of three streets, they now
saw a huge clump of throbbing and still expanding vegetation,
perched atop a jumble of trucks and smaller vehicles. It
incorporated humans from both sides as well as cyberpets, still
clicking and twitching, all wrapped up in coils and tendrils
thrown out by the blob. It was a fitting synthesis of Nowhere
City in turmoil, a powerful symbol of a city in the grip of
chaos. What struck Cynthia most was that a number of holos
walked straight through it, as if they wished to state they were
above all this despicable nonsense. The ambitions and strivings
of both organic and inorganic life left them indifferent. They
simply carried on, relentlessly, uncaring, not even paying
attention. Special Forces Units clustered around the throbbing
mass, staying at a safe distance, trying to figure out a way to
pry loose their buddies. Off in the distance, a handful of urban
guerrilleros were doing the same thing.
        The onslaught seemed to go on forever. There was a certain
ebb and flow to it, a pattern that was becoming apparent. 'Wild
card' vegetation grew and expanded and wreaked havoc at a
stunning rate, then quickly withered away equally fast as it ran
out of fuel. It thrived on organic tissue, and as that came in
short supply the vegetation was doomed. As fresh supplies of
people appeared on the scene, fresh vegetation was let loose on
its unsuspecting prey. As the battle started to diminish in
intensity Sick Joke gently touched Cynthia's shoulder, and said:
       "I've been thinking about your plans. I've been doing some
writing for you too. You should look at it and tell me if you can
use it. I think you will. I have some experience in this line of
work. I'll show you as soon as I can. Maybe it can be blended in
with the work you've already done so far. I really think it's too
good to waste. But there's more. I've been talking about this
plan of yours with some friends and some guys came up with really
terrific ideas. And I don't mean ideas for the VRT writing
itself, but for the real world out there. The notion was put
forward that a VRT alone would not be enough. Somebody came up
with a wild idea that just might work."
        "I'm interested. What did you have in mind?"
   "This is the general plan : Haggles plugs into this VRT,
believing this is the promo workout he's been expecting from you.
As he's joyfully being taken around the pile of glorious shit
you've prepared for him we put him on a plane and drop him in the
Afflicted Area. We ought to make sure©©"
       "Wait a minute," Cynthia interrupted her. "You can't be
serious. How can we possibly put Haggles on a plane and have him
flown off? That's downright ridiculous."
       "Not as ridiculous as it may seem. Let me explain. The main
thing is that Haggles doesn't really notice what's going on,
what's being done to him. As he quits the VRT he has to be
convinced he's still plugged in. Only afterwards he's supposed to
become gradually aware he's no longer mind©tripping. So the VRT
experience has to segue into reality seamlessly. Now that's the
easy part, that bit has been covered by the writing I've been
doing."
        "I'm still not sure I'm getting the picture." What were
these people up to? This couldn't be a simple prank. These folk
were too committed to their cause to lose their precious time
with practical jokes. This had better be a damn good idea,
though. And, she added, one that would work.
   "This operation," the black©haired girl continued, "will
require perfect timing. There will have to be an all©out attack
on the I©Site as Haggles is plugged in. If we are to snatch him
away without anybody noticing there will have to be a lot, and I
mean a whole lot of action going on all around the site so that
literally everybody will be too busy to understand what's going
on."
   "What kind of action?"
 "Anything. Power failure, explosions, fires, conventional
and bio©stuff attack, tear gas, computer network crackdown, you
name it. It ought to be an ultra©hectic situation. So much will
have to happen that only the day afterwards they'll find the
chance to calm down and look around. Then, of course, it'll be
too late for them to do anything about it."
    "Suppose we manage to haul Haggles away from his office.
What happens next?"
    "While he's still plugged in and happily digesting what
you've cooked up for him©©"
   "You choose your words well, I must admit that."
       "©©we put him on a military plane, destination Afflicted
Area. There are flights about every day, and as a rule they're
accepting and even solliciting payload passengers as this
generates additional income, which they're always after. They
tend to fill their planes whenever possible with journalists and
scientists and all sorts of researchers. They're offering less
comfort than regular flights, but their rates are lower and there
are lots more flights to that particular destination. Some of us
hacker whizkids will do all the bookings and phantom payments and
identity forging and other red tape activities. There should be
no problems as far as that part of the operation is concerned."
        "I see. Go on. You sparked my interest. Tell me the rest of
the story."
    "During the flight no problems should arise. Passengers who
spend the entire trip plugged in aren't exceptional. There's a
good chance he'll go unnoticed, I mean not recognized for what he
really is. We'll devise a way to get him to the Afflicted Area,
put him to sleep, get him out of the VRT and leave him to his own
devices. Our man will rush back with the next plane. Haggles will
wake up convinced what he's experiencing is still the VRT and go
from there. He should be in for a lot of fun and surprises. I'm
sure the forest will take care of him in a fitting way. Well,
what about it?"
        "I like the general idea. But I still think it's far©out
freakin' nuts. Are you sure it will work?"
     "It should if we really get behind it. But I agree that
we'll have to work at it some more. We will; be assured of that.
Well? Are you going along with it?"
  Smiling fiendishly, Cynthia said, "Count me in." Sick Joke
nodded in appreciation, returned her gaze to the scene below. The
battle appeared to be drawing to a close. Columns of smoke rose
up from various places. Heaps and clusters of dying vegetation
were strewn all around, still embracing their victims in a grip
of death. All Special Forces units seemed to have been withdrawn
already, taking with them as many prisoners as possible. The
fighters on the other side were also retreating to their
quarters. Cyberpets were lumbering back to their owners, obeying
electronic commands. Holos were switched off. A grim calm
returned to the streets. Only now it would become possible to
determine what the gains and losses had been.
  As they prepared to leave their hideout a messenger
presented himself and told Riff that some of his men had been
captured. Marshall Stack was one of them. So was Neurodancer, one
of Joke's friends.
     "Well," Cynthia asked the girl after the messenger had left
and they were descending the rickety stairs on their way out, "is
this very bad news?"
   "Let's just call it news," she said. "It's neither good nor
bad. Maybe we'll lose 'em. Maybe we'll be able to turn this into
an advantage. We'll have to see how the situation will develop
and what opportunities arise, and just go along with the flow of
things. Don't hope too much, but don't despair. Wait and see and
rise to the challenge that may present itself. That's how we take
things here. It's the only way to take them. Didn't you know
that?"
 "I guess I did," Cynthia said. "It's just been driven home
to me more forcefully than usual." They emerged onto the street,
and carefully picked their way home amidst the debris scattered
all over the battleground, silent but eloquent reminders of what
had taken place here tonight.



Ã *)Ã20

     "Look around you," Dressler said the next day, embracing the
entire forest with a broad sweeping gesture. "Doesn't this strike
you as a sane environment? Isn't it different from what you have
witnessed during your trek to this haven? Do you have any idea
what the reason for this phenomenon might be?" Drenas. Whatever they resembled most,
their purpose quickly became apparent. VanderMeer was enveloped,
hoisted up and encapsulated into the green wall. The rippling
movements intensified into a series of convulsions, then the
creature restored itself to its previous condition. VanderMeer
had made no move to resist.
    "Well," Frianelli said, "I guess he's now where he wanted to
be. For all I know he belongs there. He sure didn't fit in with
us anymore."
   "I hope he's happy now," Jim said.
     "The concept of happiness as we know it probably has no
longer any meaning for him," Dressler retorted. "He has adopted a
new set of values. He has started a new life."
 "Maybe this was the only avenue open to him after he was
hit." Jim sounded resigned. Their was little to do but accept
what had happened. They all stared at the gently rippling foliage
for a few more moments, in silence. Frianelli turned around and
locked eyes with him. They both realized that they too now had
decisions to make, goals to achieve, and lives to carry on.



21

       Cynthia brought her fingernail up to her lips and kissed it
tenderly. Magic fingers, she thought. Thanks so much for opening
all these doors for me. She chuckled as she recalled a similar
scene from one of her very first VRTs, where a gorgeous redªhaired girl had magical fingertips indeed. She didn't know if she
was gorgeous, but she definitely wasn't red©haired and no magic
was involved as far as her fingers' capabilities were concerned.
      Haggles had become quite paranoid after the attack on
Molinari's and loads of new security measures had been taken.
All doors, outer and inner ones, had been provided with a
security device. All authorized personnel had had an encoded film
applied on their index fingernail. They had to insert that finger
into a slot for a door to open. The programming had been quite
intricate. Each person could only enter a specific set of doors.
It was now impossible to enter a room where one had no business.
Bumping into a room by mistake was a thing of the past.
        She had been using her encoded fingernail all the time since
entering the I©Site this morning, but had now reached a door that
could only be opened by one person's nail or command : Haggles'
office. She had been sent for as her promo VRT had been finished.
At least that was what she wanted everybody to believe. After
Molinari's had been pretty much demolished, Haggles had set up
his new permanent headquarters at the I©Site. She had been told
he was very, very much upset. Food was brought in constantly in
outrageous quantities, even to Haggles' standards. That had to be
his way to deal with anger.
    A tiny screen lit up. Haggles' face appeared on it, his
dark, brooding eyes scrutinizing her. A shrill metallic voice
told her to hold on a second as the corridor was quickly but
thoroughly scanned. The voice then said everything appeared to be
okay and she would be allowed in. The door swung open, and she
entered.
       Haggles looked up at her, munching a mouthful of a rice dish
in front of him. "Do sit down, miss Raythan," he said. "I believe
you have good news for me."
    "As a matter of fact I have, mister Haggles. My work is
finished. I hope it will be to your satisfaction." She produced a
disk from her pocket and slid it onto the table. Haggles reached
out and grabbed it eagerly, as if he had spotted a gourmet food
item hitherto unknown to him. "You will be the first person on
earth to plug into the final completed version," she assured him.
"As you specifically requested."
       "I'm sure you won't let me down," the man said around
another mouthful. "I'll give it my full attention. As you well
know, there's a lot at stake here. A lot is riding on the success
of the new line of products we're about to unleash on the
unsuspecting public." He chuckled, spooned up another portion of
food.
  "A whole lot of work went into it," she said. "I can safely
say that this is my biggest achievement so far. So I hope you'll
understand that I would like to have some feedback as soon as
possible. Would you by any chance already know when you'd have
the time to plug into my piece, so that I know when to expect
your reaction to it?"
  Haggles pondered the question for a moment, meanwhile
continuing his meal. To her relief he nodded and said, "I
understand and even applaud your professional attitude. Let me
think. I have a window in my schedule tomorrow, late afternoon.
There's always urgent business of course, but then again your
work is of prime importance to Eyescape Inc.'s future. Tomorrow,
late afternoon it will be then. I'll let you know my first
impressions as soon as I can. I suppose you deserve that much.
I'm sure you've done a fine piece of work for us. It's a deal."
She was dismissed. Haggles returned his attention to his next
meal.
 As she was on her way to her own office, a variety of
thoughts was tossing about in her head. She was glad she had been
able to find out when Haggles would be plugged in. This was a
vital piece of information for Riff and Sick Joke and their crew.
Their plans had been carefully prepared, but without proper
timing chances of success would have been slim. She hoped they
would have enough time to get the whole show on the road. Barely
one day and a half would be a tough deadline to meet. Would Axe
have been able, in this short time, to breed copies of her
fingernail, down to the encoded film, with only the roughest of
bio©catalyst techniques at her disposal? Only time would tell ©
and would do so fairly soon. Would all the disparate parts of the
plan coalesce into a smooth operation? Would they be able to pull
off the most foolhardy part of the entire scheme : get into
Haggles' office and take off with the plugged©in man without him
(or for that matter anybody else) noticing? Get him onto a plane
to the Afflicted Area? Have him killed off in the most disgusting
way possible? She had been assured all the preparatory work had
been done. Somehow it sounded too bizarre to be workable. On the
other hand maybe only a totally whacked©out scenario like this
would stand a real chance. Anyhow, she had done her part. She
could only wait now.
   Gene Kirzowski was waiting for her in her office. She saw
right away he hadn't simply dropped by to chat some time away. No
doubt he would get an innocent conversation going and then
attempt to catch her with her guard down and pop another proposal
at her to come and live with him. He would, of course, fail
miserably.
     "How you doin'?" he asked.
    "Fine. How did you get in here?"
       "I have access to your office," he said, sticking up the
finger that had gained him access. "How's your neighborhood? Did
you have any trouble? We've been told law and order have been
restored now. As has been the case in the City Center."
        "Everything's back to normal again," she said. These newªlifers were fools, she thought. But then again maybe it was a
good thing they didn't realize this was only the calm before the
storm. If enough of them were of this conviction, then the
oncoming storm might stand a better chance to make a nice clean
sweep. A fair number of people had been rounded up all right. A
serious effort had been done to clean up the mess caused by the
various bio©attacks in the City Center. At first sight, a casual
onlooker might be tempted to think the problems were over. Only
new©lifers with their typical and, in her eyes, despicable
narrow©mindedness and spoiled brat outlook could fail to see that
what had caused the problems in the first place had not been
removed. Probably that realization would never dawn on them. For
all she knew these people weren't even aware of the problems.
  "You didn't run into trouble yourself?" he insisted.
   "No," she said. "There was no damage, I wasn't rounded up
and killed by Special Forces units, nor was I©©"
       "I like your sense of humor. Still, I'm glad it's over. I
guess it was bound to come one day. Anger, frustration. The war,
the recession. Then these riots and some unhealthy, dangerous
fooling around with illegal bio©catalyst material. I'm glad the
game's over."
  "You don't think there's anything substantial behind it?"
she prodded.
  "I've heard some people claim there's an embryonic
organization being formed. The riots would have a political
character and be much more than some random social upheaval.
They claim to see a direction, these rioters would be out to
achieve a certain goal rather than merely raise hell and scare
the living daylights out of us. Frankly, I don't believe that.
There's just no evidence pointing in that direction."
  "I suppose you're right," she said, relieved. It was a good
thing he thought it had all been sickening but ultimately
harmless hellraising. Still, it appeared at least some people
were aware of the true nature of the situation. It would be wise
not to ignore them, even if they constituted but a minority and
were dismissed by most.
        Gene had reached the point where he felt he could change the
subject in the direction he desired. "I can't say times are
getting lean, though. The volume of work is increasing. Now we
have these heightened security measures to deal with. And, to
make matters worse, some key staff members chose this period to
check into hospital for some surgery. Alan Lundlow, I was told,
just had new eyes and a sex change. That should prove to be
interesting."
  "He can't possibly come out worse."
    "Speaking of sex changes, did I tell you my wife has
recently decided to have one too? Just a six©month tryout. After
that, she told me, she'll see and make up her mind. That usually
takes her six months anyway." He chuckled, in a rather contrived
way. "My contract now leaves me with two options, legally : I can
apply for a tryout sex©change as well, which I don't intend to
do, or I can sign a six©month contract with another woman. As a
matter of fact I was thinking along those lines."
     "Really," she said, as disinterestedly as possible.
    "I even had a candidate in mind," he said.
     "I suggest you reconsider the sex©change," she replied
coolly.
        "I wasn't joking, Cynthia."
    "Nor was I."
   An uncomfortable silence hung between them for a few
moments, then she went up to her desk, rummaged in one of the
drawers and produced a disk she handed him. "A gift," she
explained. "This will bring you consolation. At least it'll bring
your restless mind at ease. It's quite harmless fun, you'll see."
      "Thanks," he said, storing the disk in his breast pocket.
"I'll plug into it tonight." Brilliant, she thought. I'm sure
you'll like this foray into extreme bad taste, the trademark of
Sick Joke's universe. Maybe you'll start a fanclub devoted to
her work. An active circle of admirers of Sick Joke's art,
wallowing in the products of one of the most disturbed
imaginations of the day. So long, Gene. Say goodbye to sanity.
You'll be sorry for not taking the sex change.
 While they stood thinking what to say next, they heard
voices in the corridor, loud, agitated and tinged with despair
and rising panic. She was able to piece together the story from
the fragments of shouted conversation she could catch. There had
been a power surge up on the sixth floor of the I©Site. It
probably was no accident. It was an attack. Some saw it as proof
that social unrest was still brewing. Others claimed it was only
a final spasm of the dying revolution, successfully nipped in the
bud before it had had the chance to reach full bloom. The power
surge in itself didn't have any catastrophic results. Precautions
had been taken, and these had now proved to be quite sufficient.
       However, one Eyescape Inc. staff member had been absolutely
powerless © and had consciously opted for that position. She had
never met him before, but then she had never had any business
with the Accountants' Department where he worked. She had heard
about him, of course. He was often cited as one of the ultimate
new©lifers, pushing the philosophy and lifestyle to its very
limits. It appeared that he now had been pushed beyond those
limits. As they reached the sixth floor, picking their way amid
people hurrying in all directions without any clear purpose, they
noticed the doors of the Accountants' Department were wide open :
they didn't have to bother about fingernails being denied access.
      "He didn't stand a chance," someone said, panting, as they
entered Nelson O'Donnel's private office. "Death must have come
instantly. There's just no way he can be brought back in shape.
Even the most expensive guys can't deal with total wreckage like
this."
 O'Donnel had deemed the possibility to plug into his
computer system insufficient. He had decided to lend the concept
of interface a new dimension. Some said he'd had himself hooked
up to the computer, but Cynthia found this to be an imprecise
description. It was more appropriate to say that O'Donnel and the
computer had become one. O'Donnel had no longer had an
independent nervous system. His brain had to be viewed as
hardware of human origin © a wet disk. It was unclear what
O'Donnel or the computer or, more accurately, the composite
creature comprising both, had been doing at the time of the power
surge. In any case, they had borne the full brunt of the attack
and had succumbed right away. Fragments of computer hardware were
scattered all over the office. What was left of O'Donnel was so
thoroughly maimed that it was impossible to tell how he must have
looked before the incident.
    More people came in, including an emergency unit who started
cleaning up the mess and ushered everybody out. Business had to
continue.
      On their way back they ran into Denise DiMarzio who offered
them another piece of bad news. "You may not believe this," she
said, "but yesterday night one of our employees, a girl from the
Marketing Department, was raped on her way home. Did you get
that? Rape! Know what that means? I think this tells us a lot.
About the direction we're heading in. Or heading back to, to be
more precise. Of course I hope this will turn out to be an
isolated incident, and not©©" She gestured vaguely, unable to
finish her sentence.
   "And not a harbinger of what's in store for us," Gene said.
    Rape. Even Cynthia was shocked at the very idea. Rape was a
thing of the past. There hadn't been any cases of rape reported
for a long time. The kind of people who used to take refuge to
rape now had a variety of VRTs at their disposal that provided a
degree of satisfaction impossible to achieve otherwise. Porn VRTs
featuring all types of kinky sex in which you could act out your
wildest and most unsavory desires were a flourishing market.
Furthermore, there was no risk involved. Old©fashioned rape had
not only become obsolete, but also dangerous for all parties
concerned. Suppose you raped a new©lifer girl who'd had installed
a number of bio©engineered protective systems that wreaked havoc
with the rapist's metabolism or killed him right away. VRTs were
so much safer and cleaner, and provided you with the exact
response you required. Total satisfaction, however sick or
deranged your sexual taste, at no risk at all.
 And now this. A case of old©fashioned rape. What did it
mean? Did it announce a new era of savagery? Were they gliding
back towards barbarian times? Was this the first sign of an
approaching downfall of modern life as they knew it? Time would
tell. Time, she thought, would have an awful lot to tell in the
near future.
   Her biggest fear right now was that this power surge attack
might jeopardize their own plans. Their was little she could do
about it. She wondered if this attack had been directed at the IªSite at random or perhaps consciously. In the latter case, that
would mean others considered it their target too. If so, who
could these people be? And what axactly were they trying to
achieve? Her only hope was that Haggles would insist that
business priorities prevailed and that hence everything should
proceed as scheduled. In that case, Riff's plans would also be
allowed to proceed as scheduled.



Ã *)Ã22

  This one was different from all the others in one crucial
respect. Jim watched in intense concentration as the composite
forest creature dealt with the bio©weapon that had been used
against it, a bio©infested dart shot at it at high speed. For a
number of days now they had been testing out and expeoice, "I'll tell you what his
problem is. And it strikes me that you didn't notice it, or if
you did it didn't bother you. The man views all this as a
strictly scientific matter. It deserves to be studied. More
research ought to be done."
    "The man's a scientist. What did you expect? You thought
he'd become a ranting and raving guerrillero?"
 "No. But he should at least realize that all this isn't just
a research facility. There is so much more at stake here. He
fails to see the complete picture."
    "I don't think that's true. I think he's well aware of the
situation. He's just sticking to what he's best at. As do we."
 "Listen, Jim." Frianelli took him by the arm and led him
away. "Maybe I'm just overreacting. But then there's such a lot
on my mind. I've been thinking a lot these last few days. I need
to talk. And preferably right now."
    "All right. Just a moment." He made sure everything was
proceeding as scheduled. The last pockets of resistance had been
dealt with, Dressler had gone off to talk with some of his former
colleagues he hadn't seen ever since he'd fled the Base and its
scientific facilities. Jim and Frianelli took a seat in a small
barracks, whose roof was threatening to collapse under the weight
of a massive layer of vegetation, still in motion but quieting
down as it was running out of energy.
 "Well?" Jim asked. Frianelli sat back, looking him defiantly
in the eye.
    "Congratulations, Jim. You've achieved what you set out to
do. This place is in our hands now. Fine. Excellent. Great job.
But where do we go from here, Jim? Don't tell me we've reached
the end of the line."
  "Honest, pal, I've been thinking along the same lines. No
way to retire now and enjoy the countryside. I'm open for
suggestions. What point are you trying to drive home to me?"
   "We've won a battle. Now we've got to continue this war.
Till it's over. Till we're the winners of this war. We've struck
the other side a firm blow, Jim, but it's still very much there."
      Jim sighed, wiped sweat off his forehead. There was silence
for a few moments, as he gathered his thoughts and figured how to
put them into words. Frianelli had been right. This was a weighty
matter, deserving to be discussed at some length.
      "All right then. I can see several problems looming on the
horizon. The research and development facilities are in our hands
now, but they've suffered some major damage, from what we've seen
so far. It wasn't just the bio©weapons, but also the conventional
attack. It will be a while before normal activities can be
resumed here. And under whose aegis will that be? Who will be in
charge here? Who will pay the bills and personnel? What about the
relationship with War Force Headquarters? What about the
shipments of finished product? Can they manage at all? Do they
have to sever this link completely? There are so many questions
still begging for an answer."
  "And they're not even the important questions I've had in
mind," Frianelli retorted. "The real important issues are totally
different ones. And they concern us, Jim. And our goal. Our
ultimate goal."
        "Go on. You obviously have our future thoroughly mapped out.
Let me hear your plans."
       "We've built up this momentum now, Jim, and we've got to
forge onward. This was only a first step. We haven't changed
anything vital. And I'm sure we can and we should. We have to go
on and rip this whole structure apart. Get this goddamn war over
with and see this bio©stuff distributed to everybody who needs
it. Take it out of the hands that clutch it now so desperately.
Wipe the floor with the whole new©lifer class back home. Kick
their asses till they glow. Don't we owe it to the people who
live over here in this godforsaken war©infested hellhole? Jim? Do
you read me, Jim?"
     "Loud and clear. So let me get this straight. People over
here use the bio©stuff for their own benefit. They've acquired a
body of knowledge and skills and adopted their own techniques
necessary to deal with the stuff. So far, so good. Now what? We
go back home, raise hell and tell the new©lifers that we're very
sorry but we gave all that wonderful stuff away? Other folk
needed it. Too bad, guys. Care for something else?"
    "Cut the crap, JIm. You just don't wanna see it. You're
being stubborn. These forest folk over here don't insist on a
monopoly, as do the bio©bigwigs back home. There's enough for
everybody. What we're supposed to be aiming for is fair
distribution of the stuff. And not just here. A lot of people
back home are missing out on things too. Not to mention War Force
assholes like us, Dressler's little brother, you name 'em. This
is a lousy deal, Jim, and we have a chance at rectifying that
situation. Maybe we'll fail. That's no reason not to give it a
try, however. What we have to do now is find a way to get back
home with a small group of capable, determined men and hit the
brains of the bio©industry hard."
      "Your words have a nice ring to them," Jim said, trying to
get the sarcastic edge off his voice. "Do you have any solid
plans yet?"
    "I've been thinking. I'll keep you posted. Don't think I'm
daydreaming or being fuzzyheaded or plain deluded. We have to
take this one step further, round up the people who support us
and finish this job. Otherwise©©"
      Shrieks of terror and hoarse shouting made them dart out of
the barracks, fearing the worst. One moment Jim was afraid that
somehow his men had lost their stand and the regular troops had
regained control. Fortunately, nothing of the sort had happened.
He knew what was going on and what had startled his men as he saw
his dad emerging from the forest, some fifty meters off, and
coming out into the open towards him.
  So there had to be hallucinogenics in the air. He knew for a
fact that they hadn't used any of that stuff in their bioªweaponry, as it would have complicated matters way too much. How
can you conduct a military operation when you're not even sure
what you're seeing is real? The stuff must have been produced by
some plants in the area. There had to be quite some quantity in
the air. The screaming and shouting indicated that most or all
people here were being affected. Who knows what they're
experiencing, Jim thought. People were falling prey to their own
subconscious, freed and intensified and warped. Although he
realized nothing of what he was observing was real he felt
compelled to watch and listen.
     His dad didn't come up all the way to him, but halted when
he had covered half the distance between the first trees and his
son. He had never seen his dad this nervous and shaken up.
Uncontrollable twitchings marred his face. Sweat stood out on his
forehead. His eyes were burning feverishly. "You let us down,
Jim," he said with a rasping voice, very uncharacteristically.
"How could you?" He shook his head, helplessly.
        "You were our only hope. And now this. Utter, total failure.
A disgrace, to us all. What got into you? Everything we gave you,
your education, your training, the values and proper ways of
thinking, you flushed it all down the drain. How could you do
this to us? And why? Why? Why throw away your life and your
future? I fail to understand, Jim. You broke our hearts. I'm
sorry, I can't face this anymore, maybe it was dead wrong for me
to come over here all the way and talk to you. You're clearly
beyond hope, and we should give you up, as you gave us up. But
then again, you're still my son. This is a terrible dilemma. It's
tearing me apart. By all accounts we should forget about you for
what you've done, but we can't. We're only human. Still that
doesn't make your crimes any less unforgivable." He closed his
eyes, shook his head once more.
        "I gotta go now, Jim. This is too painful for me. And, as I
feared, leading nowhere. Think about it, Jim. Promise." He
waited, then repeated, "Promise!" The entire scene started to
evaporate, dwindled away into nothingness. The forest was
shimmering, then everything seemed to have returned to normal,
as far as that could be ascertained. He cast a glance at
Frianelli, who was still standing next to him.
        "Were you affected too?"
       The man nodded, without adding a word.
 "What did you see?"
    "I'd rather not tell you. It's too personal." From the glum
tone and the gaze cast downward it wasn't difficult to deduce the
experience had been an unhappy one.
    "I understand. At least it all seems to be over now."
  "Are you sure? What about those critters, up there? Are you
saying these guys are real?"
   Jim looked up, saw what had drawn Frianelli's attention.
There was no way to be sure what it really was. It appeared to be
a cluster of birds or bats, all interlocked, flapping about
clumsily. It, or they, barely managed to stay in the air, a
hideous parody of flight. The unfortunate creatures formed a
scintillating mass, patterns of ever©shifting colors rippling and
shimmering across their composite bodies.
      "You think it's real?" Jim asked. "Or are we still
hallucinating? Spores lingering in the air are causing this,
perhaps?"
      "How can we know? The very nature of these hallucinations
makes it impossible to determine when they begin and when they
end. Will they ever end, for that matter? Suppose our victory is
but a figment of our imagination running wild. Or perhaps the
entire battle wasn't real. The whole works! Maybe we're still
experiencing the effects of those very first spores! Everything
that came afterwards was fake. So right now we're still roaming
the forest, happily dreaming these dreams of conquest and
success. Our minds have devised this game, the only way to stay
sane in this realm of sheer madness. Psychologically it makes
sense, Jim. You'll have to admit that much."
    "Knock it off."
        "There's just no way to find out," Frianelli said, suddenly
laughing and giggling as if he had lost his mind. "Maybe none of
this is real."
 "Maybe you aren't. Or at least your fucked©up theory." He
turned away, went off to see how his men were dealing with the
situation.



Ã *)Ã25

        Chaos had never felt so good. Timing could not have been
better. We've been lucky, Cynthia thought. We've been swept along
by a movement at the exact moment. Maybe it wasn't pure luck.
Maybe the time had been ripe for a counterblow from Nowhere
City's malcontents.
    A plethora of actions had been undertaken against various
targets in the City Center by a variety of loose organisations
and grouplets. Many of these were out to liberate members who had
been caught a few days ago and had been imprisoned. Others were
just seeking revenge and had selected their target pretty much at
random. There had been a certain degree of coordination.
Everybody realized they stood a far better chance at success if
they all worked in unison. For a change there had been an
agreement. Common sense had prevailed. Everybody realized they
could not simply overthrow those in power, but they could still
act, do something that made a difference, something which had
more than symbolic meaning.
     Although to casual onlookers it might appear to be random
rioting by hordes of subhuman scum giving way to their lowest
and most debased instincts, much of what was going on was wellªprepared and well©directed. True enough, some elements revelled
in wanton destruction. A number of innocent bystanders were
mugged. More importantly, the goals that had been set were being
achieved. Prisoners were being located and liberated. Interesting
bits of high©technology were gratefully being taken away in the
process. Even more importantly from a personal viewpoint, it
looked as though their own goals would be achieved as well.
    Their target had of course been the I©Site. Some of Riff's
men and a group they had joined forces with led by a girl called
JoyStyx were operating from their headquarters, as they
euphemistically called their sleazy, rundown hideouts. All sorts
of missiles were directed from there, and a fair amount of
downloading was done into a number of computer systems. None of
the downloaded material, if and when it managed to sneak past
safety barriers, would be especially welcomed with open arms.
  Although it didn't really matter as far as her own plans and
ambitions were concerned, Cynthia was glad the action she was
participating in was part of a generalized social unrest that had
been brewing for some time. Her group's action and goals were not
separated from the rest of society, but neatly fitted into a
sociological pattern like a piece of a jigsaw puzzle. It proved
her she was on the right track, however much that was worth.
   Riff, self©acclaimed master strategist, had deemed it wiser
to opt out of an all©out attack on the I©Site which would
immediately have settled the score © but not necessarily in their
favor. "We shouldn't come unannounced," he had said, chuckling.
"My holo department has been hard at work with the preparations."
The holo department were some of the guys he worked with. He now
tended to refer with mock©formality to his various buddies, such
as holo department, security staff, computer liaison and public
relations team, rather than with the nicknames that were so
popular down here. She hoped it wouldn't last. Mock©formality
didn't become him, not unlike genuine formality.
       As they had entered the I©Site, it had quickly become
apparent how successful Riff's strategy had been. Riff's men had
been projecting loads of holograms into the I©Site's confines,
and another team had let loose a number of cyberpets. The holo
programs had been written with a specific goal in mind : they
were supposed to scare the living daylights out of anyone
running into them. The fact that people over here weren't too
well©acquainted with holos was a bonus. There was a number of
burning men, for instance, an improvement on the original design
in that they looked much more realistic and terrifying. A whole
batch of brand new types had been written, the most sensational
one of which had been labelled Mr. DK, a man subject to a highly
accelerated deterioration process. Before the onlooker's very
eyes the poor sod's body rotted away, shreds of tissue dropping
to the ground, sagging organs becoming visible, intestines alive
with crawling maggots, disintegrating until the bones became
visible, rotting and splintering in their turn, until only a
slimy carcass was left, falling apart at the seams. Mr. DK was
absolutely nauseating and bound to have a profound impact on the
uninitiated passerby. He must have done a great job here.
      Immediately after the holos had become active, the
cyberpets had been given the freedom to roam around the I©Site.
Eyescape Inc. staff members who were under the impression that
these were holos as well quickly learned they were very much
real © usually too late to save them. The cyberpets came in
various shapes and sizes. This particular lot had been selected
because of their useful qualities in this operation : some
sprayed toxins around them as they went, others produced a
literally sickening stench, or dripped inflammable fluids. All of
them tended to attack anything they ran into © that would include
Riff's men too, so they would have to be careful.
      Holos and cyberpets were very nice, but they would not do
the job. Their only purpose was to create a proper atmosphere
for what was about to come. In the meantime the hackers, back in
their "headquarters", hadn't been idle either. They had managed
to infiltrate the I©Site's computer system and all its electronic
circuits. Doors opened and closed in random patterns, making the
entering or leaving of a room or corridor section a matter of
life and death. Computers had gone berserk or given up. Hordes of
autonomic cleaning devices had been activated and were adding a
new dimension to the concept of cleaning, as they stalked the
corridors and offices out to cleanse them thoroughly © the
borderline between dirt and human life had vanished altogether
for them. Food and drink dispensers had started taking their jobs
literally. Jets of scaldingly hot coffee were sent off at
irregular intervals, and snacks and munchies were launched at
high speed, turning them into fearsome projectiles. The airªconditioning was alternating between swelteringly hot blasts of
air and gusts of freezing wind. Water was running everywhere,
forming rivulets and cascading down the stairs. Lights were
blinking on and off in maddening patterns.
        When Riff's and JoyStyx' joint army arrived here (the
general chaos and anarchy had simplified the journey from Nowhere
City to this part of the City Center) they had been mightily
pleased with the result. Without losing time they proceeded to
Haggles' office. Cynthia was with them, as she knew her way
around the I©Site, and also because she didn't want to miss this
part of the operation. The climb to Haggles' quarters proved
uneventful, considering the general atmosphere of localized
Armageddon. A number of cyberpets and out©of©control devices had
to be dealt with, but this was done with efficiency by Riff's
crew, who were experienced at this game. The same could not be
said of the Eyescape Inc. staff.
       Nobody was present in Haggles' office but for Mr. Tastebud
himself. Outside in the corridor they had seen some casualties,
fallen prey to cyberpets or cleaning devices or perhaps sheer
madness. Only a small party had come up here with her. Most of
the gang had gone hunting for high©tech treasures all over the
I©Site. Here, however, was where vital business would be done, as
far as she was concerned. She had felt relief as she had entered
the room through the shattered door (an explosion?) and had
immediately checked two things : Haggles was plugged in all
right, and his personal computer rig was undamaged and
functioning normally, as had been explicitly demanded.
 She still had her doubts. Sick Joke agreed it would be
tricky, but it could be done. There was no way Haggles could be
pried loose from his VRT drive. That would rupture the VRT
experience and spoil their plans. Taking the entire computer
system along with him was another option that would work in
theory but proved far too impractical to carry out. Sick Joke had
brought a device invented by her hacker buddy Neurodancer, a
portable piece of equipment that would now be hooked up to the
computer. The girl carefully went about her task bringing about
the link between Haggles' VRT drive and her own gizmo. Its
program then made it possible to copy the VRT program and all
other potentially vital software on the mother disk, after which
the connection with the computer could be broken off. Haggles
would not be aware of anything. The VRT experience would go on
without any interruption. To Cynthia's relief everything seemed
to work out as planned. She found it annoying that she could do
nothing but watch others do the job. Finally Haggles could be
carried off, Neurodancer's invention strapped to his back.
     They moved back out of the I©Site, carrying their heavy
burden. They met no resistance of any importance. A relative calm
had been restored in the building, all autonomic devices and
other facilities had either been destroyed or had burned out.
They did encounter some cyberpets which were still active, and
had to eliminate these. Every now and then holos would drift or
lumber through them, but they paid no attention to them. Flames
nor decomposition managed to raise an eyebrow with this lot.
Outside on the pavement their paths separated. Cynthia was to go
back to headquarters, whereas the others would take care of
Haggles. She wished them luck and went on her way.
     She wondered if it would work out alright. The plan seemed
too daring to be workable, but these guys claimed to have some
experience and they appeared quite confident. Bookings had been
made, as had phantom payments. While on a plane to the Afflicted
Area Haggles would remain plugged in. When the VRT program had
run its course, a followup program in Neurodancer's rig would
take over and have Haggles segue into this program which would
keep him going till he was unplugged. This second program was
nothing special as such. It didn't have a purpose apart from
keeping an operation on the tracks. Cynthia had been told Haggles
would have a sensation of falling asleep and waking up after a
terrible night. Before disembarking he would be sedated, so that
he would be sleeping in reality as well. Probably he would be
unable to tell apart reality from VRT.
 The plan was for his companion to drop off Haggles at an
interesting spot in the Afflicted Area, and come back alone. By
all accounts Haggles should never be heard of again. The forest
and its wildlife would take care of him in a way that would
satisfy everybody © possibly excluding Haggles himself. She hoped
everything would work out nicely. There were only two ways :
either they never heard of Haggles again, which would mean they
had been successful. Or he did turn up © and that would be
hellishly catastrophical. Time, as usual, would tell.



Ã *)Ã26

     Haggles woke up and the very same instant he knew something
was wrong, fundamentally wrong. You never went to sleep in a VRT,
nor did you wake up. Nobody took the trouble to plug into a VRT
in order to experience the most boring of everyday routines like
retiring to bed and waking up the next morning. He knew for a
fact this was not a mistake in the program. That meant it had to
have some purpose or other. He would have to find out which
purpose exactly. He still had no clue as to what all this was
about. What had the goddamn bitch been up to? What was the
meaning of yesterday's pants©wetting episode? Had it been
yesterday, for that matter? There was no way to be sure, and
actually it didn't really matter. What was important was what
today had in store for him. He'd have to blot out the memories of
what had gone before. Forget the pain, until it had died down to
a vaguely lingering sensation in the background of his
consciousness.
 He sighed, decided he had done enough brooding and should
start to look around. He seemed to be in a sort of jungle. Not
without difficulty he rose to his feet. He felt tired and empty.
Waking up as such was not so bad. Waking up without finding a
full breakfast in front of you was. He studied the jungle more
carefully now. He had to admit the girl had done a very fine job.
She was a genuine artist in the true sense of the word. Too bad
she happened to be battling on the other side.
 Painstaking attention had been given to an incredible amount
of detail. There was a stunning variety of plant life all around
him, a myriad shapes and sizes. But all these shrubs and bushes
and trees didn't appear to be individual life forms. He had the
distinct feeling they were all somehow interlocked, intertwined,
forming a gigantic cluster. Clumps and conglomerations of shrubs
and vines and mushrooms and parasitic creepers all blended
harmoniously into each other, forming a virtually impenetrable
mass of vegetation, layer upon green layer, a multi©species unity
bent on world domination. It took some serious effort to
manoeuver himself through the dense foliage. After a while he
reached an area with some more open space, where he decided to
take a rest.
   Amazing, he thought. A stunning achievement. But what was
the point? His stomach growled, alarmingly so. This was final
proof, if any were still required, that something was wrong here.
You didn't grow hungry in a VRT. The hunger, incidentally, felt
painfully real. It was a highly unsettling sensation. Of course
he hadn't been hungry for a long time. He had been used to taking
in food constantly for quite some time. His body had been
designed to have a never©ending appetite, which was great if you
spent most of your life in an exquisite restaurant, but that was
now sadly a thing of the past. And food was nowhere in sight over
here. Unless, of course, some of these plants would turn out to
be edible. Maybe he would have to give them a try. A sudden
realization dawned on him, chillingly : maybe he would be forced
to try them out, as his hunger grew worse. At this stage, he
still managed to shrug it off and ignore it. But how long would
he manage to do so? Still, that was no immediate concern and he'd
better concentrate on the task at hand.
        Sweating profusely, and swearing equally profusely, he took
step after laborious step through what seemed to be two walls of
ominous green. How would this VRT segment end? In raw pain, like
the previous one? More likely, a fine artist like this girl
wouldn't resort to cheap repititions and would come up with more
varied material. He would have to wait and see, let the damn
program run its course. Even though he realized some new program
elements were due to be introduced, he once again expected
animals to drop into the scene any second now. Plants alone
wouldn't do the job, that much was sure. In the meantime his
stomach continued to make growling and gurgling sounds, until he
could no longer ignore it. The growing feeling of emptiness had
taken on menacing proportions. How long had he been without food
now? He'd have to do something about it.
       Panting, he halted dead in his tracks, leaned against a
vine©encrusted tree stem, thicker than his waist. After a few
minutes he could think clearly again. This part of the story was
maddening. Nothing was happening. It was no use to keep walking,
as he didn't even know where he was going to. What was the point
of all this? He could, from an objective point of view,
understand and appreciate yesterday's events as a successful
scary VRT, but this part was worthless. Two possible explanations
offered themselves. The first one was automatically rejected : a
malfunctioning program or VRT drive. But as a rule, those mishaps
no longer occurred. VRT technology had about reached perfection
on that score. So there was the other theory : this wasn't a VRT.
He had slipped out of it somehow and was now back in reality. But
then how had he ended up in this jungle? He had plugged in in his
office. There was no way he could have arrived here, unplugged,
wherever this was. So this theory had to be rejected too. Which
left no possible explanation he could think of.
        His train of thought was interrupted as he noticed a
creature, sitting on a branch of the tree he was leaning
against. Dumbfounded he stared at it © and it stared back,
equally surprised. He hadn't seen anything like it before © but
then neither had the creature. It had the appearance of a rodent,
but sported spider's legs with which it clung to the lightly
swaying branch it was perched on. Its large, bulging eyes stared
at him with obvious hunger. The feeling was mutual, but his fear
by far outweighed his hunger at this stage. Taking deep breaths,
and with a feeling of despair as he seemed to hit the bottom of
his energy supply with each intake of breath, he set off again
through the vegetation©clogged forest. Exhaustion and hunger were
now vying for his attention.
   He stopped. It was impossible to continue. He had run out of
energy. He had to eat first. He just had to, one way or another.
Anything edible in sight would do. There was no sense in being
choosy now. His life depended on it. He would have to overcome
his revulsion for uncooked plants, or, even worse, raw meat. It
was a matter of life and death. But what could he eat? He looked
around, spotted a vaguely fruit©like bulge on a bush a few steps
away. Eagerly he tore it loose from the bush, took a bite, eyes
closed. Too bad. This stuff was too tough to chew, or even to rip
into more manageable pieces. Furious, he threw it to the ground.
What about a small animal then? He looked around. Of course he
would have to catch it © that was the trouble with animals.
Anyway, there were no animals in sight right now. The rat©spider
or whatever it was hadn't followed him. So he'd have to keep
walking, painful and gut©wrenching as it was, and look out for
something.
     Presently he spotted a lizard©like creature, but as he drew
nearer it scurried away amid low vegetation. This would not be
easy. Not only would his prey have to be small, it would also
have to be sluggish. And, he added, edible. No poison. Easily
removable skin or scales, high nutritious value, acceptable taste
so he could keep it down. Surely all that wasn't asking too
much? Being consumer©friendly was the least one could ask of
wildlife in this godforsaken forest. No doubt some sloth was
waiting around the corner to provide him with an excellent meal.
Conscious of its taste, the creature would be proud to be eaten
by gourmet wizard Jordan Haggles. It would be a rare honor.
    He shook his head, tried to clear it of these nonsensical
musings that led nowhere. He forced himself to get back moving,
on and on. Time went by. He didn't know how long he had been
going and how much distance he had covered. Time and space had
become meaningless categories, no longer applying to him in his
current situation. There was hunger and exhaustion, and now a
third sensation was being added to it : rising panic, resonating
throughout his body just like yesterday's pain.
        He ran into a handful of small animals, but these all
scurried or slithered away as soon as they became aware of him.
Finally he spotted a creature that wasn't scared away as he
entered its territory. It was larger than the other animals he
had seen so far, definitely reptilian although its skin wasn't
covered with scales and it didn't have reptile's legs. Its body
reminded him of an alligator, a small one in this case, but it
had the head and neck of a tortoise. It scrutinized him, possibly
deciding whether this newcomer would make a decent meal. Haggles
was glad that, whatever its motivation might be, it didn't run
off. Maybe that very fact should be comforting, and he managed to
fight down his rising panic by sheer willpower. He had found a
willing prey. Unless of course I am the prey, and not the hunter,
he coolly observed. Whatever the case may be, it would soon
become apparent.
       After a moment's hesitation, he slowly moved toward the
fallen tree trunk the animal was sitting on, edging closer step
by little step. The creature didn't stir, expectantly. It kept
its eyes locked with his, a cold, piercing stare. When he had
gotten within arm's length, he lurched out, trying to grab the
creature by surprise. As he had feared he had grossly
miscalculated his hunting skills, not to mention the speed of his
movements. He didn't manage to grab the creature © it had caught
hold of his arm, and didn't seem inclined to loosen its grip. Now
that it had him firmly in its many©fingered paws, it started to
study its catch from closeby, carefully and methodically.
      A long, slim tongue unfurled out of its mouth, and with it
the creature examined his body thoroughly. The tongue must have
considerable tactile qualities, and perhaps combined the function
of a tongue and a set of feelers. All at once the creature
emitted a series of high shrieks. Was it calling for assistance?
Or merely notifying its family that dinner was served?
 To his alarm, the creature now carefully slashed the skin on
his shoulders, his belly and his thighs and slipped its tongue
into these slits. Haggles squirmed with pain, but strangely
enough the pain quickly ebbed away, along with all other
sensations. Was he being tranquillized? Sedated? Poisoned? Was
this the end? What a way to die. What a terrible waste. At least
he no longer felt his hunger, which had dwindled away along with
all the rest. Out of the corner of his eye he saw a host of
similar creatures appear, no doubt summoned by his captor's
shrieks. They walked in a funny, rather clumsy way, but seemed
determined enough. These weren't innocent passersby. As they
eagerly reached out for him with their tongues, his vision
blurred and was presently lost altogether. Finally, consciousness
dimmed as well. Until nothing was left.



27

  "Jim. Jim!" Dressler called him in an agitated voice,
gesturing wildly. The man was alive with enthusiasm. Jim waited
till he had covered the distance separating them. The vegetation
all around them had quieted down. It was now no longer possible
to distinguish the original plant life from the recent bioªweapons' additions. Not that it really mattered.
    "What's up?" he asked Dressler, who had come up to him by
now.
   "What a day!" he exclaimed, as if he'd just found out a wild
party had been thrown in his honor. "I just met my former
colleagues. Oh, Jim. Words fail me. If only you knew©©" He
gestured vaguely, encompassing the entire forest in a wide sweep
of his arm.
    "I understand your feelings," Jim said. "You've been
separated from your peers for too long. No doubt you were
suffering from shoptalk withdrawal symptoms. I'm sure that very
soon you'll have ample time to discuss their work with them. But
for now©©"
     "Yes, yes," he replied impatiently, "but that's not the
issue at hand right now. You need to be filled in, Jim. You've
been cut off from news ever since you were separated from your
War Force buddies. So much has happened. Some of it was new to me
as well. You think the world has stood still while you were
strolling through the park, Jim?"
      Of course, Jim realized. How could I have forgotten? He had
been so wrapped up in his own plans and ambitions, his personal
concerns and adventures, or put even more succinctly, his own
very survival, that he had lost the world out there out of sight.
I could use a news roundup now, he realized. He said, "Of course
you're right. So tell me the most important bits."
     "Follow me," Dressler said. "I've been out of touch myself.
You should talk to a former colleague of mine. Why do I still
call him a former colleague, for God's sake? We're back together
at last! If only you knew how good it feels! I'm like reborn.
It's not that I fail to realize we're in dire straits, but this
reunion has really put me on the tracks again. Follow me. Hank is
probably still in the Main Lab. That's where they were all hiding
when we came bursting in. They had been prepared for something
like this. It appears they've run into a number of problems these
last few weeks, and they decided not to take any chances. Follow
me," he said once again, as if Jim had made several attempts
already to shake him off and flee into the forest.
     Hank turned out to be a biologist in his late thirties. He
looked tired, as did all the other staff members Jim saw. They
hadn't been through the easiest of times lately. Most of them
nodded when Dressler introduced him, but few seemed inclined to
engage in a conversation or even to pay attention. They probably
had more pressing concerns at this moment. Tired and haggard as
he was, Hank Ashton seemed willing to assume the role of staff
spokesman and the three of them sat down at a table in a quiet
corner. Jim shot a glance at Dressler, who indicated he was here
to listen rather than to talk.
 "I suppose you're the man in command now," Hank said, "or at
least the person who has taken command."
      "Somebody had to," Jim said. "So fill me in, Hank. What's
been going on while we were busy?"
     Hank chuckled. ""While we were busy". I like that." He
sighed, collected his thoughts for a moment, then looked Jim in
the eyes and said, "Quite a lot has been going on, actually. The
War Force has been dealt some serious blows by a number of these
irregular armies. You know who I mean. I suppose you're on their
side now. Well, various Bases in the Afflicted Area have been
attacked, and some have even been wiped off the map. You could
say that the war effort is faltering now. They clearly cannot
cope with the present situation, and for a variety of reasons.
General Headquarters must by now admit they have lost control
over the situation and fail to adapt to the changing
circumstances. Of course they have come under attack from all
sides, even on the home front."
        "Don't tell me the war has spread that far afield?"
    "No, it hasn't. Or in a certain sense, yes, it has been
right from the very start."
    "I don't think I'm reading you loud and clear there."
  "Aw, come on. Don't tell me you never experienced anything
odd in training. Right from the outbreak of the war the training
centres in both the United States of Europe and the United States
of North America have become the target of shadowy underground
subversive types. They had a knack for "infiltrating" training
VRTs and they inflicted a fair amount of sabotage activities on
all War Force operations. Whatever measure the military computer
and VR security guys cooked up, these hackers swiftly and
efficiently countered them. And as time went by and their
knowledge of the military network increased their actions became
more and more successful. Hacker sabotage has now become a
cancer, causing the War Force body to rot from within. For all I
know they'll get the system on its knees in the end. Apparently
they can't be stopped. They're too powerful."
  "True enough." Jim nodded understandingly. "When I was in
training I've been exposed to some samples of their work. Quite
impressive, I must admit. I didn't let it get to me, though."
  "But something else got you, later on. Or else how do you
explain your presence here and your current position?"
 "We'll come to that," Jim said, impatiently waving the
remark away. "What about the evolution here in the Afflicted
Area?"
 Hank chuckled. "Reluctant to talk about your own evolution,
are you? We'll come to that, oh yes we will. Well, then. Over
here things gradually deteriorated as well. More and more groups
and grouplets of guerrilleros rose to the challenge of defeating
the War Force. They had an edge, and they knew it and used it to
their full advantage. The forest, maddeningly transforming as it
was, was their home, and its wildlife was their ally.
Furthermore their was no such thing as 'the enemy' for the War
Force. The myriads of groups, working on their own or together
intermittently, were too faceless and diversified to deal with on
a generalized basis. Training proved insufficient, and I'm sure
sabotage©free training wouldn't have made a difference. The
forest alone was hell to cope with © would have been so even
without a war. As War Force troopers felt control slipping from
their fingers, morale sank and utter demoralisation set in, only
to make the problem worse. Things inevitably went downhill from
there."
       "I think that process may have set in at around the time we
were separated from our Base."
 "It had set in earlier. As a matter of fact, you could say
this war was doomed right from the start. They should never had
decided to go ahead with it in the first place."
       "Too late to worry about that, I'd say. What else?"
    "As Bases were substantially hit or even obliterated, the
communications network started to fail too. Contact between Bases
and General Headquarters became irregular, and people in command
no longer had a clear picture of the state of affairs. If they
had a picture at all, it was an incomplete one, consisting of
various contradictory pieces of information." Hank fell silent
for an instant, lost in thought.
       "How was the situation over here at Monrovia Base? This
wasn't just another army base, was it? You must have been better
protected, better equipped to deal with whatever came up. This
area is supposed to be a vital one. Yet I had the feeling we
could walk all over you. So what happened?"
    "We've had our share of problems. At first we had a massive
security force over here. As you pointed out this is a vital
area, of the highest strategic importance. There were more
troopers than scientists and other non©military personnel
combined. If there is a prime target in this war, this is it. But
an endless string of small©scale attacks and skirmishes wore us
down, and then contact became irregular and supplies stopped
coming according to schedule. Quite a bit of the soldiers and
workers were either killed or disappeared. Maybe they fled in
panic, maybe they defected to the other side. Most of us had by
then understood the end was in sight."
        "So what did you do?"
  "There wasn't all that much to do for us. The Research and
Development facilities themselves were the first to be put on
ice. There was a variety of reasons. As I said we suffered
personnel problems. Then there was the trouble with irregular
supplies, and linked with that, we could no longer ship our
finished products due to the reduced number of flights reaching
us, and off schedule at that. At first we decided to reduce the
volume of finished product we averaged per day. But recently we
had to shut down the development facilities altogether. There was
no point in going on. Research too ground to a halt for the same
reasons. An additional problem was that we were so poorly
informed. The only thing we were told repeatedly was that all was
well and there was no need to worry." Hank chuckled. "Of course
any reasonable person knows that when he's told there's no reason
to worry, he'd better start running.
   "So in the end this place was like another army Base with a
lot of non©military personnel and a lot of unused buildings. We
had been making plans when you came bursting in at the exact
moment."
       "What's that supposed to mean?"
        "It means that if you had come any earlier, we might still
have been strong enough to wipe you out or at least drive you
back. If, on the other hand, you had come later, it might have
been too late. Maybe there would have been nothing left to
salvage. It was getting that bad."
     "What about those plans you mentioned?"
        "Well, at one point we all realized it would be better for
all concerned if we left for home before it was too late. So we
sent for a number of planes to fly us back home, us being the few
dozen of scientists you've seen here. These planes are to arrive
in the near future, if they are scheduled to come at all. We've
had confirmation, but there's no way to be sure under the current
circumstances."
        "And what are you going to do now?"
    "Frankly, I don't know. Things have of course radically
changed. We'll have to discuss this at length." He sighed,
avoided Jim's gaze, appeared once again lost in thought.
       "Just suppose you would all have left. How would the
situation have developed from there?"
  Hank merely shook his head. "It would have been up to the
military guys, I guess. We were desparate, wanted to get out at
all cost."
     "You think the planes are on their way?"
       "Possibly. They should be. Don't ask me when. Don't ask me
anything for a while. I'm tired. If you will please excuse me."
The man rose to his feet and trudged off to where his colleagues
were. Jim exchanged glances with Dressler, who had been silently
listening all along.
   "Well? Any bright ideas, Jim?"
 "This was interesting," Jim said. "And this news opens new
perspectives. I'll have to talk to Giancarlo. I have this feeling
he'll work out a cunning strategy once again."






28

        I shouldn't see this as the end, Cynthia thought, as she
walked home. I should regard Eyescape Inc. as a stepping stone on
the road to wherever I'm bound to end up. In retrospect there was
no way I could be stuck there forever. I just had to move on.
Only now it has come quicker than expected. So in a sense a good
thing has happened. It's important to always concentrate on the
positive aspects of everything, however dismal the things that
were happening to you were. It was just no use to let it get to
you. Grab a foothold on your new vantage point, head straight for
your goal and keep going.
      I'd better face it, she thought. At one point Eyescape Inc.
had been her only chance © now it was a thing of the past
already, a phase she had gone through. A necessary one, perhaps,
one she would have to use as a background in the times to come.
Her time at the I©Site provided her with credentials and
experience, and she had gotten to know a bunch of people she
might like to work with again. She was thinking of the lowerªranking people she had worked with, rather than revolting newªlifer types such as Gene Kirzowski and Alan Lundlow. The latter
had escaped all of the fun, as he had been in hospital at the
time for "body©improvement" and some "fashion©conscious
rearrangements." The former had suffered serious mental troubles
due to the all©out psychotic VRT she had handed him. Sick Joke's
work turned out to be quite effective.
 Over at the I©Site the damage had been repaired as quickly
as possible. Stolen equipment was replaced. Business had to go
on. The fact that Haggles was missing had caused quite a buzz. No
explanation had been given and was withheld until they would have
some firm news of his whereabouts. As a number of chief
executives were absent temporary replacements had been appointed.
The company would not achieve its normal work rate before a week
or so, but they were determined to struggle back whatever the
cost.
  That left her with some pretty important questions : where
would she go from here? Staying at the I©Site with its sickening
new©lifers was out of the question. Anyway Kirzowski wouldn't
like to see her face again there © when he was back in shape. She
had been looking into the possibility of starting her own
company, a small©scale affair. If she could manage to lure away
some of the Eyescape Inc. people she had worked with, she might
give it a try. She didn't feel like going back to work on her
own, as before. Insecurity would be just too high. The city
seemed to be on the verge of a change, but that didn't mean all
problems had been solved.
      Her train of thoughts was interrupted by a sudden outburst
of deafening noise, an amalgam of deeply reverberating riffs,
high whining shrieks and blares and rapid©fire drumming. A street
band had just started a "gutter gig", and already flocks of
people were gathering around them. It wasn't the first of these
gigs she had run into these last few days, but it certainly was
one of the most elaborate ones. No doubt these guys had done some
serious "shopping" in the City Center during the recent riots.
The band used two guitars, a synthesizer and some less
recognizable electronic instruments, together producing a blur of
sound, an aural barrage of pounding rhythm, bludgeoning riffs and
ear©piercing sound effects. Yet all this was merely a backdrop :
the real show was a set of holo images flickering on and off at
very short intervals, matching the pace of the music, and
creating a maddening visual inferno that blinded the eyes and
racked the nerves. Most of the audience didn't seem to bother
much about that, though. Mind©numbing as the pattern of
flickering holos was to them, they threw themselves with wild
abandon onto the imaginary stage and matched the pattern with
jerky movements, not without some initial mishaps.
     Soon a swirling mass of people had formed, thrashing and
flailing and jumping in unison, as if a group of puppeteers were
pulling the strings in perfect harmony. Weaving their programmed
way in between and through the participants were the holos,
constantly appearing and disappearing. There were several types:
an ancient warrior, his axe poised, ready to strike; a variety of
mythical animals, none very peaceful looking; a number of
abstract shapes and structures, all somehow sinister and
menacing. On and on the merry©go©round went, swept along by the
sonic onslaught.
       So gutter gigs are back in force, she thought, as she
continued her walk. Up ahead she could see another band putting
their show on the road, attracting people and creating general
mayhem. Their music couldn't be heard. From this distance it was
drowned by the noise produced by the band she had just turned
her back to. This sudden revitalization of street music had to
mean something. Bands had recaptured their drive, were perhaps
drawing renewed strength and fresh inspiration from the events
that had shook the city these last few weeks. And it's typical,
she thought, so very typical for the whole Nowhere City scene.
        Out there in the "civilized world", a vast array of music
VRTs had killed off live music. It was so much nicer to plug in
and be right among the audience, participating in an excellent
concert, suited to your tastes and conducted in perfect
conditions. You could also be one of the musicians on stage, if
you so desired. So the success of music VRTs had closed the
market for live concerts © but not in Nowhere City. Over there a
lot of live music was still being performed, but out on the
streets rather than in concert halls. Many people here detested
the clean artificiality of VRT music, and preferred their music
raw and rough, sweat©soaked, cranked out at high volume on street
corners and market squares. As a rule the musicians were backed
up by artsy holos which turned these "gutter gigs" into multiªmedia events. A broad range of styles was represented, musically
as well as visually. The majority adopted an over©the©top all©out
mayhem approach, such as the band she had just witnessed. No
doubt some City Center critics and sociologists would come up
with elaborate theories about the deeper meanings of all this.
 She wondered how these bands survived. On the street you
weren't paid for your work, although most of the people
participating in the event gave them some stuff in trade. She had
never been particularly attracted to this scene. But it wasn't
just music that brought Nowhere City's streets alive. These last
few days lots of activities had found their way back to those
streets. Whole flocks of vendors could now be seen all over the
place. Apparently many people who had done some serious
"shopping" during the recent riots were now selling some of their
acquisitions. She could see that business was flourishing.
Nowhere City vibrated with newfound activity, as if this part of
the Urban Area had finally awoken from a long slumber. And she
had the distinct feeling it wasn't inclined to go back to sleep
soon. It seemed committed, now that it was wide awake at last, to
get some serious action going. It must have a lot to do, lots of
things it had always thought or dreamed about that now seemed
within reach. Eager and hungry as it was, Nowhere City could now
no longer be stopped.
  When she got home, she found her apartment was invaded by
the sound of yet another band operating nearby. There was little
else to do but to switch on her antique TV set and turn up the
volume. Maybe it would be easier to think that way.
    She switched channels, hoping to find something that would
form a suitable backdrop for her thoughts, but as TV station
after TV station flicked past her attention drifted away from her
plans for her own future to what she saw appear on the screen.
Most of what she saw were news bulletins. That seemed to be the
thing to expect, only she realized it had been different not all
that long ago. One day TV had been mainly about entertainment.
The rise of VR technology had quickly caused a collapse of
entertainment in all other media, which either had to adapt to
changing circumstances or were pushed back into oblivion. TV had
managed to adapt, although it had lost ground considerably. It
now delivered what VRTs could not or found uninteresting to
deliver. News and reportage rose to prominence. Movies were still
being shown. She would have thought movies would by now be a dead
art form, totally unable to compete with VRTs, but they still had
their aficionados. There would always be a minority interested in
old, obsolete art.
     She changed channels once more, watched for a few moments an
interview in progress.
   "This," a man in an old©fashioned suit was saying, "is what
I call the copy©book effect. I can't say these recent phenomena
came as a surprise to me. It's a law of sociology. The moment I
saw the first reports of the riots in the city center of Lower
East©Coast Urban Area I just knew this copy©book effect would
take place."
   "So," the interviewer interjected, "you knew in advance the
riots would spread to a number of other Urban Areas in the United
States of North America. Would you care to explain? Are these
riots in any way different from the original ones?"
    "The underlying cause of all this social unrest is of course
the socio©economic climate of the Urban Areas. The gap between
the rich upper class and the poverty©stricken masses is widening,
and these masses are increasing in number. The Urban Areas are
still expanding. Social unrest had been brewing for some time.
Then all that was needed to make everything burst into flames was
a lit match. As to you second question, yes there is a noticeable
difference."
   "In what sense?"
       "After careful analysis I found that the original riots in
Lower East©Coast Urban Area were a well©directed effort, with a
political approach and a clear goal in mind. Those aspects were
missing in other Urban Areas, where a more random rioting took
place. People just caused mayhem, but there was no leadership
behind it, it was not a "movement" in action out to achieve a
specific goal."
        "What are your predictions for©©"
      The interviewer was cut short as she switched to another
channel. An idea had struck her. She should have noticed it
earlier, but now after glimpsing a number of channels in rapid
succession she had the distinct feeling she had discovered
something of major importance. Just to be sure, she scanned all
channels again, watching each for ten seconds before moving on.
She leaned back, frowning.
     She had been right. All the channels showing news or
interviews or reportages were covering the riots and everything
connected with them. One subject, however, that had been
prominent in the news until recently, was no longer being
mentioned, let alone covered. The War, she thought. Are they
trying to drive it out of people's minds? And what did all this
ecaxtly mean? Was there a deliberate attempt to divert attention
from the War? Was something going on they were not supposed to
know?
  It could for instance mean the War was not progressing
according to plan. This simply had to be bad news. She had to
admit they were playing the game cleverly, though. Attention was
directed to something which was happening at home, something in
which everyone felt involved. As long as people were flooded with
information about pressing and personal concerns, there was hope
they would forget about the War. If they managed to do so long
enough, they might be successful in eliminating the War from the
collective consciousness. If all her speculation was correct, it
left one burning question : what the hell was going on in the
War Zone? And how would she ever find out?
     She switched to a few more channels, then turned off the TV,
preferring the cacophony still being produced out on the street.
All things considered, it proved to be a more fitting backdrop
for her musings.



Ã *)Ã29

  "You can't do this to us," Dressler said emphatically, his
voice rising in pitch.
 "Oh yes we can," Jim countered. "And as a matter of fact, we
will. You'll have to understand this course of action is in the
best interests of all parties concerned. And that includes you."
       "That's only your opinion."
    "You know very well that it's more than just an opinion of
ours. In the long run you'll benefit from what we're trying to
achieve."
      Dressler leaned back in his chair, sighed, disgust and
resignation alternating on his face. "I suppose you're right.
Still this would mean we are stuck here, and who knows for how
long? Perhaps forever. We had set all our hopes on the planes my
colleagues sent for. It was the only way to cast off total
despair, the only way out left. And now you come stumbling in,
take over and as if that isn't enough you claim these planes for
your own purposes and leave us here in the middle of chaos and
madness, all our hopes shattered, our lives endangered, our
future obliterated. What do you expect us to do here, now that
everything has ground to a halt? What can our presence here
possibly mean?"
        "What you have to do here is to carry on as best you can. I
know this won't be easy, things being what they are, but it's
your only option."
      Dressler laughed, a contrived, unnatural©sounding snort.
"Oh, I really like that, Jim. We're free to do whatever we like,
aren't we? Really very kind of you gentlemen. We feel privileged.
Now, let's see, what could we do?" He frowned, as if in thought,
then said in mock©serious tone, "We might for instance open up
this place for tourists. That could well develop into a decent
source of income. If all goes well we may in the near future even
expand our business and©©"
     "Listen," Jim interrupted him, "I fully understand the
reasons for your sarcasm, but I'm afraid I haven't got the time
for it now. We know your choices are limited, but then so are
ours. There is simply no other way for us to finish the job we've
tackled."
      It was of course Frianelli who had come up with the idea, as
soon as news had reached them that a number of planes were on
their way and scheduled to arrive soon. This is our chance, he
had told Jim. We'd better grab it with both hands, for it may be
our only chance. They had sat down and Frianelli had unfolded his
plans.
 "Our job isn't finished," he had told Jim. "We've merely
completed the first step. Now we should move on to the second
step. If we want to do something that is more than a symbolic
gesture, if we want to hit the big boys hard, then we'll have to
strike where it hurts. I've given this matter a lot of thought,
Jim, and I'm sure you'll agree with my conclusions."
   "So let's hear 'em," he had said.
      "These last few days," Frianelli had said, twirling around
his fingers a dried©up string of new plant©life culled from the
decaying battlefield all around the Base, "I've talked to a lot
of the personnel, scientific and otherwise, and learned a whole
lot. I think that by now I have a fairly complete and wellªbalanced picture of the real situation out there."
  "You mean the War?"
    "The War, its underlying causes and all its ramifications.
So I guess I finally know what we're up against, and what our
chances are of doing something about it. We have to be realistic,
of course. There's no way a handful of people, however determined
and well©equipped and lucky they are, can overthrow the whole
system. We have to take our limitations into account when
defining our goals."
   "So what do we do?" Jim found his friend's rhetoric
admirable. He must have prepared his speech carefully.
 "We can serve as a catalyst here, no pun intended, and push
things in a certain direction. We can pave the way for others,
open the gates and let the tide of evolution roll in."
 "How very elegantly put. But that's all theory, dear
general, and up to now you haven't told me what you intend to
actually do."
  "Well, Jim. We've just received confirmation that a number
of planes are scheduled to touch down here, to drop off supplies
and to pick up the scientists on their request. Apparently they
are to be flown back to a hospital in the Lower East©Coast Urban
Area for standard medical examination. It shouldn't be too
difficult for us to take their place and continue our mission
over there."
   "Who's "us"?"
  "You and me and all the men we can convince to join us.
We'll take a carefully selected batch of bio©weapons with us,
work out a strategy and kick some serious ass."
        "Whose ass?"
   "Good question, Jim. You're the perfect audience. We should
do this more often. Did you know that the whole bio©technology
business is in the hands of only a few people, and that the
General Headquarters of Eyescape Inc., uncontested leader in its
field, happen to be located in Lower East©Coast Urban Area? That
means that these planes will take us right where we'll have to
be. They're not aware of our coming. If we strike hard and fast
where it hurts and meticulously carry out our plans, our effort
may well make a difference. It'll be our contribution to a better
world, Jim."
   "Unusual words for a diehard cynic."
   "You're opting out?" Frianelli sounded defiant, challenging.
He clearly hadn't liked Jim's remark.
 "I didn't say that. Still I'd like to see how we're going to
wipe out Eyescape Inc."
        "We can't do that, sure enough. But we can weaken them, take
their monopoly from them, distribute some of the bio©stuff we
take along among strategically chosen parties. Make sure it falls
into the hands of certain groups so that a normalization of the
situation can commence. We could be instrumental in that respect.
I've always wondered why such a process didn't happen before, in
a more natural way."
   "Any explanation?"
     "Maybe. Some of the scientists here had some interesting
ideas on that score. Some thought that each time some smaller
competitor in the field of bio©catalyst applications arose it was
immediately bought and controlled by Eyescape Inc. Those who
refused to be bought were pushed out of the market. They had
very, very tight control of the entire field. That's why we have
to spread the stuff all over the place and smash their monopoly
to smithereens."
       "New©lifers won't appreciate this, I'm afraid."
        Frianelli snorted contemptuously. "They're not supposed to.
And I guess I'm not the only one who wouldn't mind if their
importance decreases."
 "So what do we do now?"
        "I'll start work immediately on bio©weapons and related
stuff. You go and ask who's willing to follow us. And tell
Dressler and his cohorts that they'll miss their plane, but that
they're welcome to extend their stay in this exhilarating resort
area at no additional cost at all."
    "They'll be thrilled."
 Jim had found a number of men willing and ready to join. Not
surprisingly many of the men preferred to return to their
villages in the forest to attend to their regular duties. A fair
number, however, wanted to leave this place behind, and for the
time being this was the only opportunity to do so. A number
volunteered to help with the bio©weapons and bio©catalyst
material Frianelli wanted to take along with them. Jim set off to
tell Dressler the good news and wasn't surprised by his reaction.
Disappointment must have come like a shattering blow.
  His duties accomplished, Jim wanted to be on his own for
some time and went out, strolled around without a clear purpose
in mind, his thoughts diverging in all directions. The former
battleground at his feet formed a fitting backdrop for his
musings : decaying plant©life in various stages of decomposition,
a tapestry of interwoven roots and stems, leaves and tendrils,
blossoms and flowers, all victims of a desperate but successful
struggle towards mutual destruction. The regular forest
vegetation, insofar as the term regular could still be applied
here, had started its invasion of this carpet of death, eager to
reclaim the ground it had lost. It didn't know it was doomed to
fail. The area around the Base had to be kept vegetation©free,
and both the decaying masses of bio©weapons and the new
conquerors were to be removed soon.
    Jim's thoughts meandered on but ultimately returned to their
starting point : Giancarlo Frianelli. He still thought there were
sides to the man's personality he couldn't quite fathom, although
both of them had been together for a considerable time now. He
had always viewed him as a cynic ; now the man had turned out to
be a cynic with a cause. But what drove him? What made him refuse
leadership and leave it to someone else who might not be totally
trustworthy, or at least not totally won over for his cause? I'll
have to admit it, he thought, there's a lot more to him than
originally presumed. Who knows what the next days and weeks would
reveal? What's in it for him personally, for instance? Frianelli
might be a lot of things, but a fuzzy©headed do©gooder he
definitely wasn't.
     On the other hand, maybe this was what he had been working
towards all the time. Initially he had harbored doubts, had seen
these confirmed and had taken the required action to rectify the
situation. Maybe he'd had this complex plan, carefully and
warily hidden under layers of wry humor and cynicism, a
protective armor of razor©sharp wit.
  Personal glory couldn't be his prime motivation, his
reluctance to take on leadership was ample evidence of that. Was
he an idealist after all? It just didn't make sense. There was
but one way to find out, of course : go ahead with the plan, and
observe the man's every move, analyse his every word. He'd have
to delve deeper into his soul and try to complete the picture of
his psyche.
    Incidentally, there seemed little else to do but to go ahead
with the plan. It was the logical thing to take the action one
step further. The only alternative was to turn back and live out
his days in one of these forest villages. Perhaps track down
Liberaciá¢án or whatever her real name was and carve out an
existence here. But somehow that prospect didn't appeal to him.
It would be an escape from what he felt to be his
responsabilities, an escape from an active life in the real
world. Not only would he sever the link with his past, but he
would also be cut off from his future.
 He kicked against the brittle tapestry underfoot, and
fragments broke off and whirled away. Giving in to a sudden
impulse, devoid of all reasoning, he allowed himself a few
moments of uncontrolled frenzy, kicked and kicked the unresisting
vegetation until he had cleared a fair spot. Panting with the
effort, he watched all the fragments and particles fall back to
the ground, and felt satisfied, cleansed. His thoughts went back
to the early days of the operation. Whatever happened to the
other guys, he mused. Carvalho, MacLyle, and all the others whose
names were already forgotten. Had they died? Casualties of this
unreal War, or victims of the forest? Were they living, happily
and freed of their past, in some peaceful forest village, kindly
accepted by the New Natives? Or had they ended up like
VanderMeer, as a part of the forest in a way more intimate than
they could have imagined? And, come to think of it, which of
these three possibilities was the most fulfilling, the most
appropriate, the one to pick if a choice were offered?
 He shook his head, as if trying to clear it from these
thoughts he knew to be futile, turned around and headed back to
the Base's research and development buildings, and allowing
himself the occasional kick against an outcrop of fragile dead
vegetation.
    He would go with the flow, and find out what road to take as
the future unfolded itself before him. Whatever future awaited
him in the Lower East©Coast Urban Area, with Frianelli at his
side, and a lot of trouble on his hands. Was a new and better
world beckoning? Could the gap between the new©lifers and the
teeming masses be bridged at all? Was it wise to throw in his lot
with his starry©eyed friend who mocked the entire universe?
Maybe, he concluded, it would be better not to think about it too
much and plunge straight ahead into whatever the future had in
mind for him.



30

     "I'd like to talk to Riff," Cynthia said. "Is he in?" The
girl, whose name she remembered to be Axe, nodded. The barbed
wire tattoos on her breasts glistened with sweat. It was a hot
day, and Riff wasn't likely to have an air©conditioned dwelling.
      "Sure," Axe said. "Welcome to the Palace of Wonderslime."
      Inside Riff was enjoying some moments of rest, while two of
his hacker friends were busy at a computer terminal. As Cynthia
entered, they turned around to say hello and she recognized Sick
Joke and Neurodancer, the latter still wearing the scars of his
short©term imprisonment following the raid on Nowhere City. No
doubt he had been set free during the riots in the City Center.
        A huge holographic eye was floating in the middle of the
room, shedding an enormous tear every dozen seconds or so, which
dropped to the ground and dissipated like genuine liquid.
      "As you can see we're being watched," Riff said smugly.
        "And it doesn't like what it sees," Cynthia added. "Riff,
I'd like to talk with you."
    "I'm listening."
       "A serious talk." She threw a glance at the two hackers'
backs. Riff understood.
        "Let's go to the other room then." He rose to his feet, and
crossed the room, passing straight through the giant eye and
reappearing on the other side of it. At the very same instant a
tear fell, and smiling wickedly Riff pretended to rinse his feet
in the puddle which formed and quickly vanished. "Refreshing," he
said. "I urge you to join me, Cynthia."
        "I would never shove my feet into your eye, Riff."
     "I appreciate your concern, lady. Follow me then."
     As they sat down together in the adjacent room, they
continued their talk face to face. To Cynthia's relief this tiny
room was free of holos © as far as she could determine.
        "Look, Riff. I desperately want to get back to the work I
really feel like doing. I can't picture myself going back to
Eyescape Inc. after all that's happened recently. Unfortunately
I'm not strong enough at this stage to make it on my own. So I'd
like to strike a partnership with any parties that might be
interested."
   "The best of luck," Riff said in an even tone, emotion­lessly.
 "You know very well what I was trying to say."
 "Of course I did. Well then." He shifted in his chair, let
the aura of emotionlessness fade away. "I'm afraid you'll have to
look elsewhere. We're in different lines of business, Cynthia. I
liked working together with you, and will do so again when and if
the opportunity arises, but a partnership is out of the
question."
     "And that's final?"
    "Pretty much final. But hey, I'll extend a helping hand when
needed. What are you out to do?"
       "Get back to work, perhaps with some other people who would
want to leave the I©Site."
     "Seems like the thing to do to me. I wish you the best of
luck. Maybe you'll need it."
   "Thanks." Before an uncomfortable silence could build up she
changed course. "How's your business going?"
   "Wonderslime still reigns supreme," Riff cried out,
ebulliently. "We're selling more and more of the stuff. My
buddies are working on our source material like crazy, feeding
it, experimenting on it, turning out more and more product, all
different kinds of stuff, including some very weird bits. It's
hard to keep track of, for me. I'm more involved with the
business side. So much for the good news."
    "Meaning there's also bad news?"
       "There always is. You see, more and more competitors are
arriving on the scene. I don't know where they got their source
material. Maybe they simply stole it."
 "Just like you."
       "I like your style. Casually dropped hints. Cool
understatements. Tactful prodding."
    "Are you being driven out of business?"
        "It's not that bad yet. But the number of wonderslime
dealers is increasing every day, and I'm worried. How long will
this go on? One day the market will be saturated. We'll still be
able to sell some stuff, but not enough to make a living. Prices
will go down drastically. Maybe it's our own stupid fault. I
guess many of our customers became dealers. So we're at least coªresponsible for this happening to us. Just to be on the safe side
we saw fit to move our wonderslime factory to a bigger and safer
place. We're not too keen on visitors and souvenir hunters. As I
said, I'm starting to get worried, although right now all is
still going fine."
     "You think this place is calming down? Both the Center and
over here?"
    Riff chuckled, cast down his eyes and shook his head. "No
chance. I got this feeling it's only just beginning. Some real
turmoil is brewing. It's lurking below the surface, not to be
seen at first glance. And then there's these rumors spreading
like wildfire. Just don't know what to think of it."
   "I've heard some of those rumors. Fill me in, Riff. I'm sure
you know more about them."
     "I was told there's been some heavy trouble in the
Silverwing Hospital down in the City Center, the one you paid a
visit. Any fond memories of that trip? They must have had some
violent action over there. Different sources tell different
stories, though. My hacker buddies did some work and came up with
yet other stories. So it's hard to know what's real."
  "Tell me anyway."
      "Well, some say there was an uproar of the hospital's war
victims, due to their poor treatment. I don't buy that one. These
guys are too far gone to work up anything even remotely menacing.
On to the next : the Hospital has been attacked by rioters. That
seems more likely, although I have my doubts on that one as well.
You just don't walk in there. Nobody managed to even at the
height of the riots. I see no Nowhere City group capable of
getting away with that kind of action. Onwards to another set of
rumors. Persistent ones, incredible and farfetched and so damn
unlikely they may well be true, reality usually being what you
least expect. The Hospital was invaded from the outside. A
terrorist group that fell out of the blue, carrying out some
arcane military operation. Well©equipped and well©trained to the
point where they wiped the floor with Hospital security. They're
the talk of the town. Mysterious bunch. Major ass©kicking hellªraisers from another dimension or at least further away than a
couple of blocks. Rumors, wilder and wilder. I don't buy that one
either. I'm a strict non©buyer in this respect. But something
must have happened. We'll find out in the end. There must be some
shreds of truth among this pile of nonsense."
  "I see. One other thing. What about the War? There's no
official news on that score. That usually means there's actually
a lot of news we're not supposed to know."
    "Bull's eye, lady. We did some research on that subject too.
Didn't come up with much, though."
     "Tell me anyway."
      "We couldn't discern any overall pattern. Parts of the War
Zone appear to be controlled by the War Force, whereas other
parts are in the hands of the resistance. In yet other parts
fierce battles are being fought for hegemony. It's pretty hard to
obtain a clear picture. The military situation is shifting
constantly. Some of the reports are contradictory."
    "Do you think the War effort is crumbling?"
    "It might be. But there's no way to be sure. Maybe it'll
pick up speed again and the resistance will be wiped out. Who
knows? One of my buddies, who is an acknowledged expert on
international military affairs," (bellowing laughter and serious
thigh slapping before he could go on), "told me that the War
Force just can't win but can't simply withdraw either and admit
they've lost. So they will fight on doggedly, until the whole
thing grinds to a painful halt."
       "And would that be the end of the bio©catalyst industry?"
      "Not necessarily. But it sure would be a major change. It
would be a severe blow for the new©lifers."
    "Sounds fine to me."
   "Couldn't say what the outcome would be for us. Anything is
possible. I guess we'll have to wait and see."
 "Are new troops still being sent out there?"
   "No idea."
     There was a silence, which she hurried to break with a quick
change of subject:
     "Do you have any other bright ideas that might be of
interest to me?"
 Riff smiled, a broad lecherous smile. "What about sex?" He
leaned closer to her, his twinkling eyes peering into hers with
what she hoped was mock©lust.
  "Thanks. I've got a decent collection of erotic VRTs that
satisfy me pretty much completely. As a matter of fact I wrote
some of them myself."
  "You sound scornful of the real thing. It doesn't attract
you then?" He leaned back, mercifully.
 "No, it doesn't. For one thing it isn't safe in these times.
For another thing it doesn't give me the same level of
satisfaction as the VRT type."
 "So good clean old©fashioned fun has become obsolete, has
it?"
   "You mean you still have a taste for it?"
      "Oh yes, I do. Mind you, I do plug in one of those erotic
VRTs on occasion. I like to have the best of both worlds. Still,
the pleasures of the flesh are special. There's no risk involved
in my case. I know my girls, they know me. Make that pleasures of
the non©plugged©in flesh. So you don't want to be one of my
girls."
        "Count me out."
        "Hah! You're shaking all over at the very thought. You're
recoiling in horror. Skin to skin contact! My God! Remember? Any
dim, ancient memories on that score?"
  She rose to her feet. "Guess I'd better be on my way. Before
lecherous thoughts overwhelm you and escape is no longer
possible."
     Riff chuckled. "Good luck then. I'm sure we'll meet again.
For business, I hasten to add. Or just saying hello. Strictly
innocent dealings. Bye bye." He was still sniggering as she left
the Palace of Wonderslime. Or maybe it was the Palace of NonªPlugged©In Love?



Ã *)Ã31


    "We should have become interior decorators," Frianelli said,
chuckling his dreaded chuckle once more. Jim didn't bother to
comment. He was tired and happy he could take it easy for a
while. Things had happened at an incredible pace these last few
hours. The long flight had tired his men, but they had all
realized there would be no time to lose the moment they touched
down. So they had acted with merciless speed and accuracy © and
had pulled it off. Frianelli had once more proved to be a good
strategist, although right now he seemed quite pleased with his
recently discovered gift for interior decorating, as he labeled
his tactics of infesting buildings with destructive bio©weapons.
       They had had luck on their side, Jim realized. Hospital
personnel hadn't expected them to arrive here, and were by no
means prepared for their actions. The Hospital did have its own
security force, but these people hadn't really been expecting
trouble from within. They were paid to keep unwelcome visitors
out, not to hold back an evasion of malcontent patients © which
wasn't a perfect description of Jim's gang anyway.
     The Hospital itself hadn't been their prime target. It was a
stepping stone at best. They wiped the floor with the handful of
security people they ran into, and took hold of the Hospital's
vehicles. They would need those for the rest of their plan, not
only because they allowed them to get fast where they had to be,
but also because they wouldn't be too conspicuous in them. They
hoped to be mistaken for Hospital personnel © when their true
nature would be revealed, it wouldn't matter anymore. According
to Frianelli's plan, they split up into several groups, and each
group set off in its own vehicle to its destination : a number of
big names in the bio©technology field had their headquarters
here, including Eyescape Inc., leader in that particular field.
The time had come to pay them a visit © and they were bringing
presents.
      It was the I©Site Jim and Frianelli had singled out for
their own group, as it presented the biggest challenge, a
challenge they gladly rose to.
 So they had split up, not knowing if they would ever see the
guys in the other groups again, not knowing what the exact
consequences of their actions would be © providing they were
successful at all. As they drove around the City Center on their
way to the I©Site, they saw evidence that they were not the only
ones to harbor rebellious ambitions. There must have been riots,
and quite serious ones at that. Some of the damage hadn't been
repaired. Some of it had, but it was still evident something had
happened here. That meant there either hadn't been enough time to
do the job properly, or that the riots weren't over and only the
most urgent of repairs could be carried out, and not in the most
meticulous of ways. As a matter of fact they zipped past a few
places where minor riots seemed to be taking place, but they
didn't have the time to check out what exactly was happening.
    The I©Site turned out to be an imposing structure, an
architectonic marvel, a fitting home for what it contained.
Amazingly, it too bore the marks of recent trouble. This could
make their task easier, if this meant the new©lifers' empire had
started to crumble. On the other hand, it could make matters more
difficult if in the light of these troubles security precautions
had been reinforced. Fortunately they weren't out to take over
the building. They merely had to gain entrance and let loose
their presents © souvenirs from the transforming forest the IªSite was so dependent on for its success. How ironic the same
forest might now be responsible for the I©Site's ultimate
downfall.
      The set of bio©weapons Frianelli had decided to bring over
for this purpose consisted of batches of specially bred insects.
As soon as they were let loose within the building, they would
multiply at an astounding rate and consider the building their
nest. They would lay eggs by the thousands and realizing
lebensraum would be required soon, they would undertake to remove
all intruders from their nest © and that included the original
inhabitants. The creatures were tough and determined, and could
go to extreme lengths to achieve what they had in their
collective mind. In the unlikely event of failure to gain total
control, they would opt to destroy the nest rather than to give
up and leave. (Insects, Frianelli had explained to him with
massive mock©seriousness, are notorious for failing to grasp the
difference between an inhabitant of a building and an employee
working in his office. This failure could well be a serious
handicap if the insects were to integrate themselves into human
society. However, if their aim was to eliminate representatives
of human society from the premises, it might well work in their
favor. Jim had applauded this bold new insight in socioªentemology.)
   The I©Site turned out to be well©guarded, but that wasn't an
insurmountable problem for Jim's group, a small but well©oiled
war machine operating at top efficiency. Realizing swiftness was
a decisive factor, they drove their vehicle right into the IªSite's entrance, where it came to crashing, glass©splintering
halt. Security forces barely had the time to react as Jim and his
cohorts bounded out of the van and darted inside, each man in a
different direction, rushing up a flight of stairs, throwing
themselves down again, flitting in several directions and
hurrying back out again, without forgetting to toss boxes of
presents around. As these crashed onto the floor, the insects
were set free and would start their work © a fine example of bioªenhanced interior decorating, as Frianelli would no doubt put it.
     The security forces were now aware they were facing an
invasion, and hence they were not prepared to hold back Jim's men
who now were back on their way out already. The real invasion
was taking shape slowly, and was being discovered now. Hopefully
by now it would already be too late to stop the chitinous hordes.
      Jim's men jumped back in the van, and off they went to their
next stop : the seedier parts of town, graciously labeled Nowhere
City. That had been Frianelli's idea, who had spent much of his
childhood in one of these slums. Jim came from a different
background, a middle class family from a City Center in an Urban
Area up North. He wasn't sure he shared Frianelli's ideas about
their duty awaiting them in Nowhere City, but went ahead with the
plan anyway, trusting his buddy. So far his strategies had turned
out to be solid, well thought©out constructions. Jim's main
concern for now was the fate of the other groups. Would these men
have known as much success? He hoped contact would eventually be
restored.
      The plan now was to distribute some stuff they had brought
from the forest among various groups in Nowhere City. Not insects
or other bio©weapons this time, but raw materials that would
allow the owner to start a small bio©catalyst company. Nothing of
enormous proportions or vast importance, but enough to carry some
weight if a sufficient number of people were involved. According
to Frianelli it was absolutely necessary that as many groups as
possible from all over the Urban Area had access to the new bioªtechnology, and that included Nowhere City. He hoped that the
process they intended to set in motion here would spread to other
Urban Areas as well. Distributing the stuff shouldn't prove too
difficult : interested parties would be on their trail anyway, as
always on the lookout for whatever they might lay their hands on.
They would simply serve them, as long as stocks lasted. Then they
would consider their mission accomplished. They would take a
break and do whatever they felt was the thing to do.
   Everything had gone as planned © more or less. They had
found out you couldn't simply drive from the City Center to
Nowhere City, even if you happened to be driving a Silverwing
Hospital van. There had been a roadblock and armed guards. The
Hospital logo on the van's sides allowed them to get quite near
without attracting undue attention. When Jim, who sat behind the
wheel, saw the guards cast wary glances into the van, he put the
pedal to the metal and the van roared straight through the
roadblock. They were shot at, but not much. Attempting to break
through the roadblock into the City Center would probably be a
lot more difficult © and the bullets would keep coming until they
stopped you. The van had suffered considerable damage, both from
the roadblock and the bullets, but it still did the job.
       They soon find out they had only the easy part behind them.
Driving through Nowhere City proved to be driver's hell. The
holos drove Jim mad. He didn't know what to dodge and what not.
He made a few mistakes and dented the van even more. He knew it
wouldn't last much longer. He cut the engine when Frianelli told
him this was where they had to be : a fairly large square,
populated by lowlife figures and mechanical oddities scurrying
about, holograms flickering on and off, and at the far end some
street band producing a hell of a noise that passed for music
with the milling crowd around them. Frianelli did most of the
talking. He felt at home here, and seemed to know what he was
doing. Jim was glad he could simply watch and observe the street
and its garish inhabitants.
    Business was over in a matter of minutes. They had gotten
some food and drink supplies in return for the van which they no
longer needed © especially since the engine had broken down. They
had settled down in a quiet spot © quiet according to Nowhere
City standards © had filled their stomachs and felt the time had
come for some serious talking.
 "So what are you going to do now, Carlo? Now that we
finished the job?" Jim leaned back against a brick wall, resting
his head against the rough surface, staring Frianelli straight in
the eyes. He looked tired, but his eyes were still ablaze with an
inner fire.
   "What makes you think the job is finished?" Frianelli asked
after a moment of thought. "I think I'll go on fighting. It's
turned out to be the thing I can do best, and isn't that what you
have to do in life if you want to be successful?"
      "I guess it is. So the fight isn't over for you?"
      "It sure isn't. Right now I feel like settling down in this
neighborhood and join some rabble rousing gang with a clear goal
in mind and a serious commitment. I feel this burning ambition
inside of me, I'm propelled by this unresistable drive. I've seen
enough bullshit happening. I'm sure I'll find my niche here.
Maybe some of the other guys will follow me. They're free to do
as they please of course. And what about you, Jim? You did a fine
job once you'd seen the light."
        Jim shook his head. "Count me out, Carlo. I'm fed up with
this whole thing now. Right now I want to lapse back into a
normal life. Go and visit my relatives, to start with."
        "They may not like to see you back after what you've done to
their cozy little world."
      "I'll have to live with that. And so will they."
       "Well, I haven't really got anyplace to go back to. That's
an additional reason to keep going." There was a pause, and they
heard only the noise produced by the street band at the other
side of the square.
    "Tell me," Jim said after a while, "why didn't you do
everything on your own? What did you need me for?"
     Frianelli smiled his wicked smile again. "I like drawing
plans and cooking up strategies. But I'm not too keen on
spearheading the realization of those plans myself. I gladly
leave that to guys like you. I suppose we complement each other.
I'm just an incurable cynic with feverish plans tossing about in
the back of my head, Jim. It's up to your type to get the show on
the road. I'll go along with the ride, but not in the driver's
seat."
 "Yes," Jim said, nodding. "I can see that now. I
underestimated you all along, ever since the start. You had these
doubts right from the beginning, but it took solid evidence to
convince you. Empiric proof. The scientific method. And now I
understand why you kept up this cynical stance, this vitriolic
humor you directed against everything in sight. It's just an
armor, a carapace. An efficient form of protection against a
basically hostile world. It allows you to stay sane, to get
through life unscathed, to survive. So after all it was a good
thing I had you at my side. Who knows what might have happened
otherwise? I could have died. Liberaciá¢án's urging might have been
insufficient. I might not have taken on leadership and struck
the fatal blows that I did now. I think I can safely say that I'm
starting to see things as they really are now."
        "Maybe the hallucinogenic spores are wearing off at last." A
wide grin appeared on Frianelli's face.
        "I should kill you for that remark."
   "Wouldn't the world be a poorer place without me?"
     "It would also be a quieter one."
      "Kill me in silence then. The difference won't be too
striking that way."
    "You're a very thoughtful man, Carlo."
 Once again they lapsed into silence, unless you counted the
dreadful noise still coming from the other side of the square.
After a while it even managed to drown their thoughts.



32

   "I really think this is something you should see, Dr.
Dressler," the blonde girl said. He searched his memory for a
moment, then managed to retrieve her name : Susan Jenkins, a
minor lab assistant. The interruption irritated him beyond
measure. Who had sent her to him anyway?
       He threw down his pencil with a tired gesture, pushed back
his chair, and sighed. "What is it now, Susan?"
        "I'm afraid I can't explain. You'll have to follow me to the
forest."
       "You mean now? It can't wait? It's that important?"
    "So they told me. Please?" Despite his fatigue and his
unwillingness to venture into the forest, he gave in. He knew
they wouldn't send for him for some trivial matter. Due to his
massive field experience concerning all forest life©forms, they
relied on him often when encountering new specimens. Just to be
on the safe side he had some armed guards accompany him, although
these last few days there had been no signs of imminent danger.
Ever since the day Jim Reicher and his gang of roving madmen, as
they were kindly referred to here, had swept through Monrovia
Base and taken off to the American East Coast, calm had returned
to this area. The War seemed far away now. He wondered how long
this situation would last. If only this were a harbinger of
better times to come. But deep down he knew this to be selfªdelusion.
 The armed guards who accompanied him were part of what was
left of the Monrovia Base military personnel, and that wasn't
much. They were perfect in the current situation © where their
presence made you feel secure although there was no real menace.
If and when trouble would rear its ugly head they would be
completely useless. Ever since the attack the soldiers had been
flung back between hope and despair. They seemed to realize
control was slipping through their fingers, and most of them
hardly seemed to care anymore what was happening. Despite
occasional flickerings of hope there was an atmosphere of morose
gloom. The only times the soldiers succeeded in fighting off
their apathy was when they embarked on killing sprees, venturing
into the forest and exterminating all creatures that happened to
cross their path, a sort of belated revenge for their dismal
misfortune. Only the Research Department of Monrovia Base had
managed to rekindle its activities, on Dressler's initiative. It
kept the scientists busy, fooled them into believing things were
at last reverting to normal. He was sure they realized they were
only fooling themselves, but had gone ahead with the idea to ward
off the encroaching apathy they had seen the soldiers fall victim
to. The development facilities remained closed down for the time
being © there simply was no work to be done.
   Off they went, Dressler, three guards, and the girl, to the
place where the discovery had been made. It took them the better
part of an hour to reach their destination. When they finally got
there he saw three colleagues examining the discovery they had
deemed sufficiently important to send for him right away.
      "Over there," a man called Stevens said.
       My God, Dressler thought. They were right to come and haul
me out here. This is about the weirdest thing I've ever seen
around here. He turned to the man who had discovered the thing.
        "This can't simply be another transformed forest creature.
Have you found out anything about it yet?"
     "We haven't studied it properly as such. Do you think we
should conduct an autopsy on it?"
      "An autopsy? That's impossible! It isn't dead yet. I mean,
he isn't dead yet. We're talking about a human being here."
    "A former human being," Stevens corrected him. "He may not
be dead yet, but he is no longer alive either in the traditional
sense of the word."
    "Sounds like a fair enough description to me." Dressler took
a few more steps so he could observe the man from closer by. He
was, or had definitely been, human at one point. A rather fat
male person. His features were barely recognizable now. It would
be hard to identify him, if that would be possible at all. How
had he ended up here? And what had happened to him? He seemed to
be incorporated into a greater organic structure. But why? And by
whom? What purpose did he serve? This appeared too complex to be
simply some forest transformation that had gone haywire.
       "I think part of the answer is approaching," Stevens told
him. "Look over there." They all turned in the indicated
direction. A group of small, rodent©like animals had appeared
from among the dense foliage, and stopped dead in their tracks as
they noticed the handful of human intruders. They emitted a
series of shrill shrieks. They're scared, Dressler thought. Or
perhaps angry because we've invaded their territory. A further,
more sobering thought struck him : maybe they're communicating
with each other, discussing what to do now. Some of these new
forest creatures had developed crude forms of intelligence and
were capable of such feats.
    "What do we do?" the girl asked.
       "I suggest we retreat, far enough to lead them into thinking
we're gone, but still close enough for us to observe what they're
doing. That might yield some interesting bits of information
about them. And about it." They exchanged quick glances and all
agreed. Presently they were watching from a respectable distance
what the furry creatures did with their prisoner © if that was
indeed what he was. With rising astonishment they saw how two of
the creatures went up to the man, penetrated the vaguely
gelatinous structure in which he was embedded like a misshapen
embryo in a womb, and slid their long, tapered tongues into
cables protruding from the man's swollen paunch. They appeared to
suck for a minute or so, then were replaced by two other
creatures who repeated this remarkable ritual.
 "They're feeding," Stevens said in a hoarse whisper. "I
think I'm beginning to understand. He isn't simply held captive.
He's being used as a food dispenser. We'll have to look into this
more closely of course, but they appear to use his digestive
organs to process their food for them."
        "What do you think made them do this?"
 "There's no way to tell at this stage. I suggest we cut him
loose, or at least the entire structure of which he seems to form
part, and take it all back to our lab."
        "The creatures are clearly intelligent."
       "I suppose they are to a certain extent. Mere survival
instincts and cunning wouldn't allow them to carry out such a
mind©boggling undertaking. I gather something along the following
lines must have happened : a colony of these furry animals run
into this guy, wandering around in the forest for God knows what
reason. As is typical for all intelligent beings, their curiosity
is raised and they capture and examine him. They find out he has
something that may be of interest to them and use it to the best
of their possibilities. They make sure he cannot escape and stays
alive, without bothering to preserve his consciousness, which has
no use at all for them. What we now need to know is, what is so
special about him that drove them to do this?"
 "I'm sure we'll find out about that in due course," Dressler
said. "Let's see how we can cut him loose without killing him, or
what's left of him, and get the hell out of here."
     "I'm not sure our furry friends will appreciate our cutting
off their food supply," Stevens said, a contrived smile on his
face. Nobody seemed to find it particularly funny, but one of the
soldiers, who all had remained silent up to now, offered an idea:
      "I suggest we leave 'em a note, saying the restaurant will
be closed for reconstruction." The two other soldiers erupted in
bellowing laughter. Dressler and his fellow scientists were
already on their way back to their newly found study object. It's
an interesting discovery in more than one sense, Dressler
thought. Apart from its intrinsic scientific interest, this find
would give them something to do, both fascinating and worthwile.
It was exactly what they needed at this stage. The man was a
godsend. Make that a forestsend, he corrected himself. Oh boy, he
thought. I'm starting to react like those dimwitted soldiers.
Let's hope I can turn around that evolution before I drop to
their level from which rescue is no longer possible.
   He joined his colleagues, busily discussing how to carry out
the job at hand.



Ã *)Ã33

    "Welcome to Eyecatcher," Cynthia said. "This is a brand new
company. Actually it's an extension of what I've been doing
before. As a matter of fact you could say that everything I've
done before led to this, the culmination of my career in VR art.
I used to work on my own, but that was too small a project to
carry much weight. I did have some success, though, both
commercial and artistic success. But now I'm finally on the right
track, I can feel that I'm ready to take off in a big way. A
handful of former Eyescape Inc. colleagues chose to follow me, so
we're a small bunch of committed people here at Eyecatcher. And
then there's a couple of fresh recruits like you."
     She looked at the young man in front of her. He was called
Jim Reicher, a supposed War Force dropout and City Center
troubleshooter. He looked like the archetypal military man :
short©cropped, black hair, firm jaw, strong nose, hard, piercing
stare. As a matter of fact he looked a bit too much like a
soldier was supposed to look. She would have to redesign his
looks if he was to serve as a lead character in a VRT, make him
more individual. His real©life looks, authentic as they were,
wouldn't be accepted by the audience or the critics. They would
find them too clicháád, too predictable. And at this early stage
in her career, or rather her Second Period as she had started to
refer to it, she couldn't risk bad reviews.
   She had hired him mainly as a story consultant. He had been
through some experiences that should by all accounts make a
fascinating VRT. There definitely was an audience for that kind
of thing. She doubted everything he had told her was authentic,
but that didn't really matter. VRTs weren't supposed to be true
stories anyway. The guy had told her he had joined the War Force,
had gotten lost in the War Zone with a number of buddies and had
gone through a gradual process of understanding. Once he had
found out the Truth he had led his troops right to the heart of
the forest and had knocked the Enemy off his feet. Then they had
jumped on a plane to this Urban Area, had wreaked some
considerable havoc and had retired. Or in his case, opted for a
career change. The last parts of the story appeared to correspond
with what had really happened.
 "I must say I don't see this as a long©term project," the
man now said. "The thing is, I need to make some money before I
go back to where I used to live, and this seemed like a job cut
out for me. In the meantime I'll work on a number of safety
precautions. I'd like to have a new identity, just to be on the
safe side. A friend told me that was absolutely vital,
considering my past. Not everybody is overwhelmed with joy by
what I've done. My dad, for instance, may well be prepared to
turn his back on me and blot me out of his memory, sever the
link completely."
      "I have friends who can help you with that," she said. "Even
down to entering your new identity into major databases. Don't
worry about that. Any further questions?"
      "Actually, yes. Do you have any news about your former
employer? As you know we dropped by for a courtesy call and
handed over some presents."
       "So I've been told," she said, chuckling. The raid by the
mysterious terrorists had been well covered in the media. "You
did a thorough job."
   "You mean my six©legged assistants who are overseeing the,
ah, reconversion of the site."
 "Last thing I heard was they had killed off half of the
exterminators' team that had been sent."
       "Only half of them?"
   "The others managed to escape."
        "What happened to the Eyescape Inc. people?"
   "They were forced to relocate their headquarters, at least
temporarily. Only there was a power struggle at the top. The
company's big boss had disappeared, and there were just too many
candidates eager to assume his role. So inevitably the company
split up. As far as I know, Eyescape Inc. no longer exists as
such. It appears to have dissolved into a number of smaller
companies. I don't know what repercussions this will have for its
branches in other Urban Areas. There must be some serious
reshuffling of the cards in the making."
       "That's exactly what we wanted," Jim said. "It was central
to Frianelli's original plan."
 "Whose plan?"
  "One of my War Force buddies. We were together right from
the very start. At first I heavily disliked him. He had this
cynical stance, mocking everyone and everything, doubting
everything we were told. I only got to know him as time went on
and were knee©deep in the shit together. He was the guy who came
up with most of the ideas, who kept me on my toes. You could say
he got me where I am now. At one point there was a girl involved
as well. A good©looking, dark©haired girl. As a matter of fact
you remind me of her."
 "Don't use those silly old tricks on me, Jim. Cut the crap.
For all I know this gorgeous beauty exists only in your sexªstarved imagination. Come on, admit it." She leaned back in her
chair, stared at him defiantly.
        "Come to think of it, Frianelli had this theory which he
kept firing at me, very much tongue©in©cheek, at least so I hope.
Your question reminded me of it. Let me tell you," he said after
a moment's hesitation. "At one point, as we were picking our way
through the forest, we inhaled hallucinogenic spores that caused
a series of illusions. My friend claimed that after inhaling
these there was no way to know when the effects had worn off
completely, and hence no way to be sure what we saw was real. So
maybe, he theorized, our entire experience out there was only an
illusion, including that girl I mentioned. Even what I'm
experiencing at this very moment might still be an illusion. He
would doubt, for instance, that you are real."
 "Some friend. A good thing you parted company with him. And
let me assure you that I feel quite real."
     "Fine. I'll believe in your existence for the time being."
     "That seems like a good starting point. Now I suggest we
dump this crackpot philosophizing and get back to the business at
hand. I've been thinking about those insects you brought along.
The I©Site wasn't the only place you infested them with, was it?"
      "No. We split up into several groups, and each one hit a
particular target. All the selected companies were connected with
the bio©technology business. That's where Frianelli and I thought
our disruptive influence would be most efficient."
  "I don't doubt it for a minute. My question is : what will
these insects do once they've taken over the buildings they were
put in? What will be their next goal? Will they stop? Will they
ever stop? Are they capable of taking over a whole block? A part
of the City Center? The entire Urban Area?"
    "I don't think they're that ambitious."
        "But you said they can't be stopped?"
  "Not until they've achieved what they set out to do."
  "And that's limited to one single building? Their nest, as
they view it?"
 "I guess so."
  "You're not absolutely sure?"
  "You think we had a couple of years to test those suckers in
simulated environments? Time will tell when they'll stop. I'm
sorry if that's not what you wanted to hear, but it's all I can
offer."
        "In that case we'll have to wait and see. And hope time
tells some good news."



Ã *)Ã34

    It's been some time since I could describe the days as
hectic, Dressler thought. Could this mean the old times are
coming back? Could it mean new and better times are looming on
the horizon? Whatever the case may be, the situation was
definitely changing fast. As he was sitting at his desk in "his
office", as he chose to call the small room that had been
allotted to him, he was well aware of the frantic activity that
was causing such a buzz at Monrovia Base's Research Department.
People were running on and off. Instructions were being shouted,
questions asked. People were arguing and bickering, joking and
swearing, the whole gamut of human interaction. The general
atmosphere was a mixture of hope and uncertainty. Hope that a
major change was forthcoming. Uncertainty as to what that change
would entail.
  At least, Dressler thought, the mind©numbing apathy had
gone. He had loathed that frame of mind in his colleagues. At one
point it had driven him to consider the possibility of making his
way back to the forest village. Fortunately, that was no longer
necessary now. His thoughts drifted back to the events of the
past few days.
 They had received some official reports about the War that
had sounded like genuine reflections of reality out there © and
this was something he found promising. He was under the
impression that the entire War effort was faltering. There was no
official cease©fire, yet a certain status quo seemed to have been
reached. The War Force had been struck some serious blows, and
the "enemy" now controlled parts of the forest. There were still
some War Force strongholds centered around a number of Bases.
Persistent rumor had it that in some areas fierce battles were
still being fought. He wondered what was at stake in these
battles, considering the current status of Monrovia Base, whose
interest had sparked off the conflict in the first place.
      Monrovia Base seemed to have evolved into a sort of neutral
zone, untouched by the War for the time being. This was highly
ironical, as it was the prime target of the war because of its
priceless Research Department and development facilities. As far
as he knew this situation had been reached by pure chance, by a
combination of unrelated factors. The War seemed to have gathered
momentum and now just kept going on its own accord with little
regard to its original intent, the defense of Monrovia Base and
its precious facilities. And, added to that, the construction of
a ring of Bases to ensure total control of the entire Afflicted
Area, which eventually was to be rendered free of all
"unofficial" armed forces. That goal now seemed to be hopelessly
out of reach, perhaps forever.
 As if the situation was not remarkable enough, more
unsettling news had followed. They had received orders to resume
activities as normal. It had sounded sufficiently official to be
taken seriously. Yet they had all had the feeling something
wasn't quite right here. They couldn't quite pinpoint what had
been wrong, but somehow the news hadn't rung true entirely.
Could it have anything to do with Jim's gang of madmen? Could
these guys possibly have achieved anything? They had been
determined enough, of course, but also overly ambitious. For all
he knew they had been shot the moment they arrived at their
destination. As a matter of fact anything else would be hard to
believe. But then again the same thing could be said of
everything that had happened these last couple of years.
       Whatever the case may be, they had discussed the situation
at length and had all agreed it would be a good thing to resume
their activities, in however limited a way as was forced on them.
Personnel, supplies and power were all lacking to a certain
degree. The Research Department was the least vulnerable part of
the Base and the easiest one to get back on its feet. Hopefully
the other departments would follow one day, depending on a
further normalization of the situation. Regular contact with
whoever was in charge now and the restoration of an unmannedªplane shuttle service for personnel, supplies and finished
product would be a strict necessity. There was a general feeling
that things were shaping up at last and that most of the trouble
was behind them.
       The day after the discussion had as if by miracle realized
some of their wishes. Communication with the overseas General
Headquarters had been restored, but for a very brief moment only.
They had been able to get in touch with a couple of Bases
apparently still intact and functioning, but at this stage these
contacts were highly irregular. Still, it would be possible now
to get some first©hand news for the first time since quite a
while. Back in his forest village Dressler had been entirely cut
off from official news sources. When he got back here he had
found they'd had their share of problems in this respect.
      During their brief contact with GHQ they had been told an
unmanned plane was on its way to them. At once amazed and
relieved, they had seen the plane come in at the announced time.
It carried a limited number of supplies, and was to be returned
with finished product © a demand that came too early, as he hoped
they (whoever "they" were out there right now) would understand.
Still, it had been taken as a good omen, a sign that they were
back on the right track.
       Then there was the man they had found in the forest. He had
been the object of careful and meticulous study. The man had
turned out to have an incredibly sophisticated digestive system.
It had to be some state©of©the©art application of bio©technology,
affordable only by new©lifers in Urban Areas overseas. It was a
mystery how this guy had wound up over here. There was no way he
had been living around here. As a rule this type of people stayed
well hidden in their rich neighborhoods, hardly ever venturing
outside. Still, here he was. He had been discovered by a bunch of
smart creatures who had somehow understood what made him so
special and had found a use for it. They had captured him alive,
and had hooked him up in an organic structure that supported his
life functions and kept him immobilized. His life was allowed to
go on © only his useless consciousness had been eliminated. It
served no purpose at all for his new "owners". Life support was
all that was required. The man had been turned into a food
factory and did an excellent job. Too bad he had been
rediscovered by his fellow humans © make that former fellow
humans. There was little human about him left.
 He would be kept here as a curiosity. As things gradually
went back to normal, he would no doubt fade into the background
with the rest of the gruesome details of life during the war.
  An assistant came rushing into his office, handed him a
number of sheets. "Faxes. They just arrived. Better read 'em
right away. Could be important." The man rushed back out of the
office, too much in a hurry to give further explanation. Dressler
flattened the rumpled sheets, turned his attention to the
messages, his reminiscences already forgotten.





35

 "I guess this is the end of the line for me," Riff said,
"and at the same time the start of a new line of business. See?
This is what I'm doing right now. I'm making some decent money
now. And I'm enjoying this like hell."
 Cynthia studied the sample of Riff's work, his new line of
business as he put it. Part of it was mechanical. It consisted of
a metal frame representing a stylized human shape, which moved
its arms up and down and shook its body as if trying to throw off
something that bothered it. The metal statuette was planted in a
soil container. "Now watch," Riff said. Green tendrils crawled up
from beneath the soil, eagerly groping for anything within
grabbing distance. As soon as they reached the legs of the metal
skeleton they coiled around it and left the soil completely. The
tendrils grew thicker and wriggled and shuddered constantly. It
soon became clear there was a method and a purpose to their
movements: the plant was climbing upwards, despite the
obstructive movements of the human figure. Up the green clump
went, enveloping the abdomen, the torso, the flailing arms and
finally the head. There, inevitably, the plant had to stop its
ascent, and prepared itself for its next step. At its extremities
the green suddenly burst into red and white as the plant quickly
developed blossoms. These rapidly sprang into full bloom. Seed
pods became visible, grew large and were let loose. As the plant
started withering away, the pods dropped into the soil. The plant
had barely deteriorated into wisps of brown dried©up wood or the
next generation reared its head already, and tendrils came
peeping through the soil.
  "It repeats its cycle over and over again," Riff explained,
"as long as the soil contains enough nutrients to keep it going.
It's very adaptable. It can thrive on anything organic, and it's
very generous in its definition of "edible". The quality and
quantity of the nutrients in the soil determine its speed and its
total running time. When it's exhausted its supplies, it doesn't
die. It just goes dormant and reawakens as nutrients are added."
       "Fascinating stuff."
   "I call it organic art, although it has a mechanical part,
and some others even feature holo displays. All of them work in
cycles and are based on the same principles. More importantly,
they're selling like hell. I can barely meet the demand. About
time too I discovered a hole in the market. My previous business
was really swept from under my feet. It just disappeared
overnight."
    "What happened to your gang?"
  "It's disbanded now. Only a few of my former buddies still
work with me, developing and growing and finetuning these little
babies." He pointed at his organic work of art which was still
going through its cycle. "Most have gone their way. There's a
whole lot of wonderslime companies now, scattered all over the
place. There's cutthroat competion. I don't think all of them
will survive. I wouldn't have if I had continued. So this idea
really saved my hide."
 "Things sure are changing fast."
       "Let's just hope they're also changing for the better."
        "I'm not too sure about that. Reality just doesn't work that
way. A lot of the stuff that's now being produced over here as
well as in the City Center is dangerous, out of control,
illegal."
      "But it's a beginning, a sign that times are changing. No
doubt things will smoothen out after some time."
       "I hope you're right. I also hear your new company is doing
fine."
 "I sure have high hopes for it. Speaking of my company,
wouldn't you like to join us? You're an artist now. You'd fit
right in."
     A wide grin slashed his face. "I knew that was what you had
come to ask. As a matter of fact I had been expecting that
question. But the answer's still no, much as I appreciate your
offer. I value my independance too highly. I just can't work in
somebody else's shop. I'll go my own way, no matter what. I'll
roll with the changes, go with the flow, and see where I end up."
      "Guess I should have known," she said, resigned. His reply
didn't come as a surprise. She knew him well enough now to
predict his reactions. Why then had she bothered to come over to
ask him that question in the first place? Maybe she had merely
needed an excuse to pay him another visit. Did she know herself
enough to predict her own reactions? She shifted her eyes to the
holo that was going through its cycle in the middle of the room.
Riff followed her gaze and explained, "It's a present. A
farewell gift from Neurodancer and Sick Joke and some hacker
types they gave me when we parted company. They created it
especially as decoration for my hideout. They know I go for that
kinda thing. Don't you like it?"
       Cynthia watched as it went through its entire cycle. A
slender woman was floating in mid©air, making slow and gracious
movements, languidly like an underwater ballet dancer. An
expression of sheer panic appeared on her face as her body
suddenly erupted into flames. She now thrashed and flailed in
agony, her face a warped mask of pain and terror. Within a few
moments her entire body was enveloped in a rippling shroud of
flames. As the fire finally died down, only a charred clump
remained. In its turn this structure fell apart into a layer of
ashes. Then nothing happened for a number of seconds. All at once
the ashes stirred. Life seemed to have returned to the gray
inanimate debris. Something came rising up from the ashes,
phenix©like. As the shape unfolded it became clear what it was: a
butterfly©girl fluttered upwards, flapping about its multiªcolored, fragile©looking wings to keep the slim girl's body
suspended in the air. A beckoning smile appeared on her face,
then the wings moved with more power to propel the creature away.
It struck Cynthia as a bio©engineer's idea of an angel. The
butterfly©girl turned around, poised to fly off to whatever her
destination might be and flickered out of existence. Its cycle
was finished.
  "Well?" Riff asked.
    "Impressive," she said.
        "It's a symbol for the end of an era," Riff explained.
 "And the beginning of a new one," she completed. "And,
incidentally, I think I just found out where you got your ideas
for your organic art. Don't you think there's a certain
similarity, Riff? Come on, admit it. You've been plagiarizing."
        "That's ridiculous," Riff exclaimed. She wasn't sure if his
indignation was authentic or not. "Be reasonable, Cynthia. You
know very well that I'm no longer a businessman. I'm an artist
now."
  "Meaning?"
     Riff chuckled. "Businessmen steal. Artists are influenced."
    "Of course, Riff. My apologies. I won't make that mistake
again."
        "I applaud your insight," Riff said, grin widening. They
tried to keep their conversation going, but it soon became clear
to them that little remained to be said. So Cynthia decided to
leave Riff's hideout before the rift that had opened up between
them became too painfully apparent. At this stage it was still
possible for each of them to go his own way while remaining on
amicable terms. So they said goodbye, without any hint of unease,
let alone hard feelings.
       The image of the butterfly©girl was still before her mind's
eye when, a few moments later, she was back on her way to the IªLash, as she had chosen to call her Eyecatcher offices. Maybe it
was wishful thinking on her part or simply her imagination, but
the Nowhere City streetscape looked different already. She felt
the winds of change blowing into her face. And whether it was all
a figment of her imagination or really out there, it sure felt
good. For now, that should be enough. A Nowhere City inhabitant
just didn't have the right to ask for more.









EPILOG

    "You've changed," Cynthia said to the man sitting across the
table. "Is anything left in there of the old Jim Reicher, the guy
who went out to fight for some heroic ideals?"
 The man leaned back, and smiled. "So I've changed, that's
quite true. But then the entire City, the whole world has
changed. I guess I just went along with the general change."
   "Uh huh." She stared him into the eye for a few seconds,
noticed how an expression of mild surprise and wonder appeared on
his face. "And that's it? Come on, Jim. You know very well
there's a lot more to it than that."
   He cast down his gaze, toyed with his knife and fork, then
nodded. He appeared lost in thought for a moment, then shifted
his gaze back to her eyes. "You're right of course. Everything
has changed, but I may have changed more radically and more
unexpectedly than the rest." He shrugged. "What can I say?"
    "You worked you way up at Eyecatcher. I remember you saying
you would only stay there for a little while until you could go
and join your relatives."
      "That was my original intention," he said. "But things just
haven't worked out that way. It wasn't my fault. My dad©©" His
voice trailed off, and he gesticulated awkwardly.
      "Don't simply blame someone else. That's the easy way out.
You've changed a lot, Jim. So has your dad, and so has the rest
of your family. Only thing is, you've all changed in wildly
diverging directions. There's no way you could get back together
and ignore everything that has happened. And bear in mind that
you are at least partly responsible for that evolution."
       "I guess you're right," he said. "Let me tell you about how
I found out about my dad's activities while we're waiting for our
meals to arrive."
      "I'm afraid it's too late for that," she said, as she saw
the cyberpet©waiter arrive, carrying their orders. It had been
her idea to go and have lunch at Mex©Mech Ristorante, a typical
representative of the new breed of Hybrid Restaurants that were
growing ever more popular in Nowhere City and to a certain extent
in the City Center. This particular one served a variety of meals
that were partly synthetic, partly traditional Italian and
Mexican, not to mention some rather undefinable elements. Still
the meals weren't all that much off©the©wall. Some of the wilder
Hybrid places offered genuinely weird mix©ups and appealed only
to people with highly unconventional tastes. Some even advertised
their philosophy that having lunch or dinner had nothing to do
with fulfilling certain needs, and even less with health or even
survival. Somehow she had the feeling those warnings weren't
completely given tongue©in©cheek.
      "I'll tell you all about it around mouthfuls of this, ah,
food," he said, "if that's what it is. If my mouth can cope with
it, I mean. Just eating this may be too much already."
 "It can't be worse than what you've swallowed already." He
noticed her faint smile, and raised an eyebrow.
        "Do you mean that literally or figuratively?"
  "Both. Would you mind if I started eating before my meal
gets cold?"
    "You mean this stuff actually cools down?" he said in
disbelief, staring through the swirls of fume rising from the
dishes.
        "It may even be somewhat edible," she pointed out.
     "This place will never fail to amaze me," he exclaimed. Then
he picked up his knife and fork, ready to attack his meal at
last. "Should I keep my eyes closed?" he asked.
        "If you want to play it safe I suggest you even keep your
mouth closed."
 "You're the ideal woman to have lunch with," he said, and
swallowed his first mouthful of slightly synthetic Italo©Mexican
food©like substance. It appeared to go down well © or else his
metabolism had by now adapted to Hybrid cuisine. They ate in
silence for a few moments. In the meantime Jim collected his
thoughts about his relations with his family © or, to put it more
properly, his lack of any relations.
   A small cyberpet came scurrying in their direction, and its
voice circuits said, "Please pay attention to the following
presentation while you are enjoying your meals. It may be of
interest to you. Be assured that it is to us." It buzzed off to
the other customers and repeated its announcement, then
disappeared into an alcove. Whatever was to follow, they would
not allow it to disturb their meals.
   From out of a nearby wall, a giant mouth protruded, as if it
had been hiding there all along. Most customers recognized it for
the holo feature that it was and hardly paid attention,
continuing their meals and their conversations. The mouth now had
manoeuvered itself into the middle of the restaurant, where it
hung in mid©air. Saliva dripped from the thick lips and formed
puddles on the floor. The lips started to make smacking
movements, producing viscous liquid in ever greater quantities.
Then the disgusting drooling stopped and the mouth yawned till it
hung wide open. A spasm went through it, and the mouth convulsed
and all at once disgorged a multitude of small objects that
spilled out onto the floor. Jim cast a glance at the quivering
carpet now covering the floor, and saw that it consisted of
shrimp, crabs, small lobsters, chicken wings and legs, slices of
fish and meat, vegetables and fruit and assorted sweets and pies.
All of these were still alive, or at least shaking and quivering
as if alive. They spread out, wriggling and squirming, until they
covered a sizeable part of the restaurant's floor, passing
straight through the customers' feet.
  Jim knew this couldn't be the end of it, and it wasn't. Most
of the 'complete' creatures, such as the shrimp and the lobsters,
started gobbling up their fellow gourmet items. As they did they
grew larger and changed shape. This process went on until the
floor had been eaten clean and only a dozen of the predators were
now left. These were pretty large, cat©sized creatures, but they
had totally lost their original forms. They now were hybrid
creatures incorporating elements of various species. Without an
exception they all had large, flat flanks, however. The reason
behind this phenomenon became clear as letters and logos and
drawings started to appear on the creatures' flanks. As these had
become fully prominent, the dozen creatures paraded around the
restaurant, proudly displaying the ads on their flanks. Jim saw
they were all ads for Hybrid restaurants in the area. Once again
the creatures were growing larger, and the ads were flashing on
and off in bright colors. One after another they grew menacingly
large until they exploded in puffs of smoke. Only one creature
remained, a cat©headed armadillo with crab's legs, which sported
an ad for this particular restaurant, winking on and off on both
its flanks. The creature then dissolved into a shapeless blob,
lost touch with the floor, slowly drifted up and into the wall
the giant mouth had sprung from. The display was over. Jim's
biggest fear now was that this would be a holo display that
repeated its cycle till it was turned off. He was afraid the
advertisers wouldn't be satisfied with one single showing.
     Cynthia had finished her meal. She had barely put down her
knife and fork or a cyberpet came whizzing past and snatched her
plate and cutlery away. She picked up the thread where they had
left it before the holo presentation began © somehow it had
seemed unwise to tackle a sensitive subject while a holo
commercial of dubious taste was going through its cycle.
       "I remember you telling me your dad frequently appears on TV
these days."
   "He does," Jim said, still chewing away. "To my dismay, I
must hasten to add. I was quite shocked when I first caught sight
of him. It hurt. It really did."
       "Do you feel like telling me more about it? Or is this a
subject you'd rather keep to yourself?"
        "I do," he said. "But on the other hand it may be better to
talk about it anyway. It may relieve some of the tension that's
been building up inside of me." With a few large bites he
finished his meal, recoiled as a cyberpet rushed past to clear
the table, then leaned back at ease, closed his eyes for a
second, pondering the best way to tackle this difficult topic.
 "As I told you," he said, "I intended to go back and join my
relatives as soon as I felt fit to do so. I only needed some time
to pull myself together and to make some money. This would make
the reunion both psychologically and practically more feasible.
It was my assumption they craved this reunion as much as I did.
The world had changed, so had I, and I thought so had they. But
then I saw my dad on TV, by accident. He may have appeared there
before, in which case I missed him. Maybe that was a good thing.
If I'd seen him immediately after my arrival the blow might have
been too much for me to bear. Now it's still painful, but I can
live with it. I'm reconciled with the situation as it is. I'll
survive." He was silent for a moment, no doubt reminiscing.
    In the meantime the holo had reinitiated its cycle and the
giant mouth was now pouring its thick stream of gourmet food
items onto the floor. Most customers ignored the spectacle. Jim
shook his head, licked his lips and resumed talking without
looking Cynthia into the eyes.
 "It turned out my dad had embarked on a major political
career. Of course he had always been involved in City Council
politics, but something had prompted him to go for bigger things.
He wanted to play a major role, leave his mark on the political
map, nationwide rather than locally. The world he loved so much
had started to crumble © and in the fight against the forces of
destruction he had lost a son. It left him an embittered man. But
also a dedicated and determined one. The first time I saw him on
the screen I barely recognized him. He was so different from the
person I remembered. The way he spoke. His sweeping gestures. The
rage and passion smoldering in his eyes. He filled the screen
with his presence. It was so intense and powerful.
     "He mentioned he'd lost a son in the War, and he always
seems to do when he makes a public appearance. It must have been
quite traumatic an experience."
      "And," Cynthia interrupted, "in a sense he's really lost a
son in the war."
       "I know what you mean. Let's say he lost the son he used to
know."
 "Do you think the complete truth would make him feel any
better?"
       "Not in the least. If he would know me as I am now and find
out what I've done he would be absolutely horrified. Shocked to
the marrow of his bones. I personify everything he rejects and
detests. The moment I discovered that, I knew I just couldn't go
back. It would be better for all concerned if he kept believing
he's lost his son in the War."
 "Does this loss explain everything?"
   "I guess it doesn't, but it may have been a decisive factor.
The upper classes to which he belongs deplore the way society has
been changing. The old way was much more comforting for them,
despicable as it was. They used to be well off. A changing
society, and I'm not even mentioning a revolution, could only
work against them. Nobody willingly gives up his power and his
petty privileges, even if the bulk of the population benefits
from the change. Common sense doesn't count here. It's a terribly
narrow©minded viewpoint, but that's how it is. It's nothing new.
It's only driven home rather painfully when your father turns out
to be one of Them."
    "At one time you were heading off in that direction too.
Remember the old Jim Reicher? The guy who joyfully joined the War
Force, itching to blow the enemy to kingdom come?"
     "I remember him all right. But didn't he get it right in the
end? My dad, on the other hand, took his attitude one step
further. So society had changed in an undesired direction? Well,
he'd do anything in his power to return to the old order. He'll
do whatever it takes to achieve his goal."
     "And he'll fail miserably."
    "No doubt he will. But that won't keep him. He has the
support of a group of people who are fully behind him and backing
him financially. They're all in similar situations. Many have
lost sons or relatives in the War. Other haven't, but feel their
position in society is threatened. They've formed a political
party, and call themselves Radical Democrats."
 "Cute name," Cynthia said, looking down at the holo
creatures parading once more around the restaurant and straight
through her legs, delivering their messages proudly and
forcefully. "I suppose they're convinced of the logic and wellªfoundedness of their ideals?"
   "You bet they are."
    "Will you go and fight them?"
  Jim shook his head, cast a sideways glance at the
preposterous holo creatures now once again disappearing in puffs
of smoke. "No, I won't. I've done my share of fighting. I'll
gladly leave that to others now. It would be too painful and
tiresome anyway. Apart from that, I've grown to like the job I've
found here, and the life I'm leading. My new identity isn't just
a new name and some forged IDs. I'm a genuinely new person. It's
strange when you compare it to what happened to my former
buddies."
      "You're still in touch with them?"
     "I never heard of most of them once we settled down here.
Nowhere City's vast, really vast. They all went their own way and
disappeared without a trace. Apart from Carlo Frianelli, the one
I told you about before. I knew where his hideout was, and we
managed to see each other occasionally. He used to be this
intrepid guerrillero type, always fighting some battle against
some enemy. Enemies aren't in short supply in this world. He's
joined various gangs successively, but when we last met he seemed
to have grown battle©weary. It was the last thing I expected to
happen to him. He said he was considering to go back home and
join his relatives. Isn't that ironical? He was planning to do
what I had intended to..."
     "And you ended up staying here, which was originally his
plan."
 "Exactly. I guess that means, that, different as we are,
we're also very much alike. Does that make any sense?"
 "It does in Nowhere City. This is where all the unexpected
things happen."
        "I guess that sums it up." For a while they were silent. To
the dismay of both of them, the giant mouth bulged forth from the
wall, ready to go through its cycle once again. "I've had enough
of this," he said. "I have to go now."
 "I'll pay this one. I suggest we go somewhere else next time
around."
       "Will it be any better?"
       "No, just different."
  "I guess I'll have to make do with that. Next time you
choose the venue and I'll pay. Goodbye."
       "Bye." He jumped off his seat and quickly left the
restaurant, walking straight through the giant mouth as it was
about to spill its load of gourmet food items. He spit into the
mouth, saw his spittle go straight through the palate and splash
onto the floor, and as the shrimp and crabs and lobsters and the
rest fell through his chest he briskly stepped outside.
        He still had some time left, and on the spur of the moment
he decided to go and talk to Frianelli. His hideout was within
walking distance of this restaurant, at least to Jim's standards.
When you had done a trek through the forest like he had, you had
a different definition of "walking distance" than most people. He
set off, picking his way through the bustling activity of Nowhere
City. It was evident that the recession was over © at least in
this part of town. The outer rings of the Urban Areas would no
doubt always remain poverty©stricken, underdeveloped slums,
however flourishing the economy became. But this part of town,
where he had chosen to live for maybe the rest of his life, had
been growing more prosperous steadily. You could live a normal
life here (normal to Nowhere City standards) if you played your
cards right and if you had a bit of luck. Life was still rough
and harsh, but a lot less so than had been the case in recent
years. Struggling uphill, however laborsomely, felt so much
better than tumbling down.
     Yet, it was still very much Nowhere City as it had
essentially always been. The rich City Center was a wholly
different ball of game altogether, and different people (the newªlifers foremost among these) were busy carrying on their very
different lives. The gap between these social classes would
never be bridged.
      The streetscape looked blindingly luxurious. Buildings were
lavishly and lovingly decorated © or so the casual onlooker would
be tempted to think. A more attentive observer would soon find
out that there was something wrong with the glittering facades,
heavily covered with sculptures and ornaments in a myriad styles,
oriental, baroque, cubist, gothic, hyper©modern or plainly
surreal. Most of the buildings' appearances clashed with
everything in sight. Garishness and over©the©top designs were
enough to drive any architect mad within a few heartbeats.
Mythical beasts, gargoyles, caryatids and a plethora of creatures
with pouting faces and squirming limbs all vied for living space.
Facades and rooftops were crawling with movement and life © all
of it fake. Every now and then there were short power failures or
malfunctionings that revealed what was real and what was
holographic in nature. Very little was real.
   Whenever reality was revealed, it turned out to be painfully
different from its glittering and glamorous decoration. The holos
covered decrepit buildings, gray, sagging structures, coaked with
dirt, crumbling and giving way to decay. This was a city of
deception © and judging from the depressing looks of the real
streetscape, most of its inhabitants tended to prefer being
deceived.
      As he continued on his way, he was constantly approached by
street©vendors peddling their wares. He turned down all the
offers. Anything could be bought on the streets of Nowhere City,
most of it at your own risk. One man came up to him, claiming the
disks he offered were so "mind©bendingly soul©ripping you can't
afford to miss out on them. As long as you haven't given these a
try, you haven't been alive. You can't refuse this offer. You
can't do that to yourself. It'd be worse than dying." He was
about to tell the man that he was of a slightly different
opinion, but he wasn't given the opportunity to do so. Somewhere
up ahead a street band had picked this instant to start their
gig. They did so by producing a barrage of sound that made all
attempts at communication impossible. The peddler gave up and
trudged off. Jim was about to run away from the sonic onslaught
when he caught sight of the visual part of the gig, and he
stopped dead in his tracks. It looked so interesting and typical
of Nowhere City's current cultural climate that he decided to
stay and watch, while trying to cope with the eardrum©shattering
sound level as best he could.
  The four musicians, two with strapped©on guitars and two
with portable keyboard©rigs, all wore elaborate costumes and
masks that made them appear like a gang of insectoid mutants. The
designs were highly effective, lending a menacing, even fearªinspiring aspect to their stage presence. As he watched them amid
a quickly gathering crowd, the music was mercifully quieting
down, and strands of melody were being interwoven between the
blasts of pure noise. Gradually the melodies began to dominate
the overlaying brute sound, until after a minute or so only a
couple of interlocking melody lines could be heard. A rhythm was
added, a slowly but steadily quickening pace that added power to
the melodies without returning to the monolithic wall of sound
that had served as an intro. Probably it had merely been used to
draw people's attention in as large an area as possible.
       Now the backdrops became visible, a combination of painted
curtains that were lowered, a lighting system and some holo
effects. The stage represented a glade in the forest. Although it
was a highly stylized and 'artistic' rendition, Jim recognized it
for the forest of the Afflicted Area that he knew a lot better
than the guys who had designed this stage act. Still they had
done an admirable job. The scene showed a lush junglescape, and
managed to convey an aspect of impending danger. The music
slowed down, became gloomier and heavier. In its turn the forest
scene grew more threatening and more oppressive. A strong
pounding rhythm was added to the music, and a string of
disharmonic sounds was interspersed with the melody. A city
skyline became vaguely visible through the jungle scene. Each
view alternatingly dominated the other one, until they finally
blended into a bizarre jungle©encrusted cityscape. The melodies
had now been drowned out by the disharmonic sounds, and the
rhythm unrelentingly picked up speed until it evolved into a
blur. The music was now matching the backdrop in weirdness, and
Jim no longer found it amusing. He felt even somewhat nauseated.
Most of the audience seemed to lap it all up eagerly, but then
they hadn't lived through his predicament.
     The musicians no longer were standing still. As the music
deteriorated into a whirling vortex of warped sound and their
visual show into an equally warped urban©jungle panorama, the
four band members joined in a seemingly random series of antics.
Their choreography of chaos matched the other elements of their
show in gut©wrenching intensity and sheer weirdness. The
audience, hungry for strong sensations and eager to participate
as ever, quickly adopted the musicians' madcap movements. Within
a few seconds a throng of perhaps a hundred people was
transformed into a seething mass of bodies, limbs thrashing and
flailing out of control, crashing into and careening off each
other. Jim managed to push his way out of the madhouse before he
had suffered any injuries © he wondered why none of these people
ended up seriously hurt or maimed when 'participating' in a
street gig. Maybe, he thought, only the ones who could survive
this kind of behavior were still alive to perform their craft.
Relieved, he left the milling crowd behind.
    In recent times he had seen a lot of street art of all
kinds, music, holo displays, graphics, organic art and VRT
material, and he had clearly noticed two recurring motives that
were becoming increasingly prominent. One was a fascination with
jungle vegetation, more precisely the bio©catalyst©enhanced
plant life of the Afflicted Area, often in combination with an
Urban Area setting. The other was that of insect life©forms in
all possible variations. The reason behind this phenomenon was
easy to figure out. Firstly the insectoid bio©weapons they had
introduced here a number of years ago had never been completely
exterminated. Many parties had tried to do so, but the critters
were tough and determined and genetically tailored to withstand
just that. The areas where they had found a home had been sealed
off hermetically from the rest of the city. Rumor had it, though,
that future expansion couldn't be ruled out entirely and that
only fools and VRT junkies thought they were safe.
     Secondly, some of the bio©catalyst©produced plant©life that
had been imported here over the years, had either on purpose or
by accident evolved out of control. Of course it had been
tampered with by many local enthusiasts who had used it for their
own ambitions and who had lacked both the knowledge and the
proper techniques to perform a decent job. It was no wonder then
that the situation had gotten out of hand. Most of the troubleªmaking plant©life had been effectively dealt with, but some of it
had been given free rein. In some cases because it had proven
invincible and resistant to anything local authorities had come
up with. In other cases the green coup had taken place in a part
of town where local authorities didn't bother to interfere, such
as the outer rings of Nowhere City. By now there were several
areas where New Vegetation reigned supreme, taking over without
tolerating any other life forms © unless they were willing to
serve as food. These Green Zones weren't sealed off officially.
They were simply considered to be off©limits and people fled the
area as the green tide expanded. Nobody knew when it would stop ªif it had that intention at all.
      As he walked, the music behind him grew dimmer and faded
into the general background noise that constantly filled the air
over here. He found this 'natural' noise more bearable. The
street he was now walking down led into a sort of market square,
at this time of day totally occupied by street©vendors, all busy
selling and trading. Money was but one of the ways to settle
payment in Nowhere City. He slowed down his pace as he passed a
large display of organic art works by this genre's rising star, a
guy called Riff that Cynthia had told him a lot about. The dealer
stated that he was an authorized representative of Riff. He would
probably say anything that could boost his sales.
      Organic art really was in vogue now, and had achieved that
status in a mere few years. It was a new art form, and a typical
one for the milieu in which it had come into being and risen to
prominence. As an exotic, transformed life form, successively
changed into a bio©weapon, illegally introduced over here,
greedily taken hold of by local interested parties and ultimately
turned into works of art, it was a typical product of its niche,
Jim thought. It showed that Nowhere City's inhabitants, of which
he now was one, tended to roll nature and war and business and
art all into one and veer off from each of these elements of life
into any possible direction. This Riff guy had to be an
archetypal character. A low©life figure, a criminal, a gang
leader, a rebel, an unscrupulous dealer, and now an artist. Like
Nowhere City itself, he grabbed everything in sight, absorbed it,
and threw it back out again in whatever shape the absorbing
process had given it. Nowhere City meant life on the cutting
edge. It was a dreadful place, dangerous and unpredictable,
menacing and volatile. It was also endlessly fascinating. And it
happened to be the only place where at this moment he was willing
to live. And, he reminded himself, I need to talk to Carlo
Frianelli. And leave this damned organic art behind. It brought
back his recollections of the transformed forest way to vividly.
He speeded up his pace.
        The building where Frianelli had located his General
Headquarters, as he tended to refer to his modest ramshackle
apartment, was dazzling and overwhelming as ever, a baroque
superstructure of impossible proportions that could have been
plucked right out of an educational VRT on architecture. Jim
shuddered to think what it looked like under its layer of holos.
An armed guard blocked the only entrance to the building, a tall
and broad©shouldered heavyweight, clad in a one©piece silver
uniform, his face hidden behind the reflecting faceplate of his
helmet. Jim knew him for what he was and walked straight through
him. Inside was very much the opposite of the baroque splendor
outside. Jim briskly ran up a flight of creaking stairs, down a
scarcely lit corridor, and knocked on the door of Frianelli's
GHQ.
  "What's up? If you're tired of life, come in." It took some
time for the words to register. Whoever this guy was, he
definitely wasn't Giancarlo Frianelli. What had happened? This
meant bad news, no doubt about that. In the meantime, a total
stranger was staring him morosely in the eyes from Frianelli's
doorway.
       "Who are you?" he finally managed to say. "What are you
doing here?"
   A leery smile slowly appeared on the man's face. "I was
about to ask you the same questions."
  "All right." Jim took some deep breaths, held up his hand,
swallowed. This might turn out to be pretty difficult. "Let me
explain. I don't know who you are or what you're doing here, but
a friend of mine lives here."
  "You mean used to live here. I moved in here a week ago or
so. Does that answer your question? Does this mean you can leave
now?"
  "I can't believe this." Jim shook his head, desperately
tried to think clearly. "My friend can't just have left. That
doesn't make any sense. Carlo would have gotten in touch with me.
Or left a note, anything."
     "No, he couldn't do any of those things, and with good
reason. Carlo, you said? I bought this shithole from a guy called
Carlo who lived here until I moved in. I liked this place because
it's further away from the desolate outer rings where I used to
hang out and cheap © Carlo had to go fast and accepted the first
offer to come his way. Hey, look. Why don't you come in for a
second, so we can talk about this? You look confused and you
clearly know this Carlo type. You can call me ShiverShade."
   Oh no, not another nickname, Jim thought. Not another
typical Nowhere City lowlife type. But then again who else could
you expect here? Once inside, he recognized Frianelli's place.
Nothing had changed. Carlo had left everything he possessed. The
new occupant hadn't had the time, or the money, to bring in his
own stuff, apart from some high©tech equipment on a sagging desk.
      "So who are you?" Shade asked. Jim remembered the hackers
who infiltrated and 'damaged' official VRTs like the military
training programs he had been exposed to called themselves
Shades. Probably this guy was one such hacker.
 "My name's Warner," he said, careful to use his new
identity. "I'm an old buddy of Carlo. We used to fight together,
ended up in this place and drifted apart, although we still saw
each other occasionally."
      "I see. Let me tell you this : I wasn't a close friend of
Carlo or anything. I met him a couple of times, mainly for
arranging to buy this place. But he was pretty well©known among
certain people so I have some info on him. I guess you know a
whole lot more about his background than me, so I'll stick to the
most recent bits. What made him decide to leave and why it had to
be done quickly the way he did it."
    "Fine." Jim, alias Warner, nodded. "I'm all ears."
     "It appears your buddy got tired of the life he was leading
here. It got to him. He used to be this tireless fighter, the
eternal rebel who always found a cause. He was a member of these
gangs, you know? Pretty dangerous games these guys played. Only
thing is, these people don't take it if one of them wants to
quit. Once you're in, you don't get out. At least not alive ©
unless you can run very fast."
        "I think I'm getting the picture."
     "Once Carlo had dropped out he discovered he'd better get
the hell out of here. He'd finally gotten this restlessness out
of his system, wanted to bow out and settle down. Live a quiet
and peaceful life here, reminiscing about the good old days.
Telling tall stories about his battles and victories to an
enraptured audience. But he hadn't realized his former buddies
wouldn't let him. So he had to leave fast, make some money by
selling this place and everything in it to the first interested
buyer and run like hell. He did, and on time. I don't think they
got him. And they never will, cause he was clever. He covered all
his tracks. There's no chance they'll track him down, wherever
he's fled to. That's too bad for you, though. It means you're not
likely to track him down, either. You'll have to live with that.
It's the way of the world. Better face it, pal."
       So that's it, Jim thought. We're separated for good now.
Certainly that was bound to happen one day, only it had arrived
so abruptly and unexpectedly. But as Cynthia had said, Nowhere
City was where all the unexpected things happen. He'd better get
used to it.
    "Now that I've got you in here anyway," Shades continued,
"There's something I'd like to hear your opinion about. I need
some impressions from an unbiased observer on my latest creation.
Just a second." He turned around, grabbed a keyboard and typed a
series of commands. He turned back again, and explained. "I used
to be a hacker, but I switched to designing holo shows for street
bands. Tell me what you think about this one. It's only a
preliminary design for a new band called Clash Of Symbols.
Watch."
       Jim watched as a rose flickered into existence, hanging in
mid©air in a corner of the room. It remained motionless for a few
seconds, then its petals began to wave and the flower grew larger
and larger. Its bright red color diminished in intensity. The
rose also started to change shape now. Both the red flower and
the green leaves and stem underneath were now turning grayish,
then stabilized as a dark brown tone, a very unrose©like color.
The rose, however, had now swollen and changed beyond
recognition. As its transformation continued its new identity
became visible, and Jim wondered why he hadn't guessed what was
about to emerge. It fitted right in with the new mythology that
was developing in Nowhere City, and was so blatantly typical he'd
soon have to consider the theme as traditional. The rose had been
turned into an insect, leaves and petals had shifted color and
substance into chitin. Faceted eyes, waving antennae and clicking
mandibles of an enormous size now filled the corner of the room.
Then the creature mercifully winked out of existence.
  "Well?" Shades asked. "Are you impressed?"
     "Quite frankly, I'm disgusted," Jim said.
      "Excellent," Shades exclaimed, clapping his hands with glee.
"That's exactly what I wanted to hear. These Clash Of Symbols
guys have embarked on a real horror trip. You should hear the
music they've come up with. These guys will rip their audience
apart. And they want to have a visual show that matches, or if
possible, surpasses their music in brain©numbing terror. This
rose©into©insect thing is of course only one aspect of a fullªscale show."
     "I'm sure they'll be hugely popular in no time," Jim said.
"Audiences these days love to be ripped apart."
       "It's a booming market," Shades said. "I joined in at
exactly the right time. And I must say I'm pretty pleased with my
current state of affairs."
     "You used to be a hacker?" Jim prompted.
       "I sure was. I used to work my way into these military VRT
programs and wreak some serious havoc. I used to break into
official networks and sell the classified information I dug up.
That went fine for a while, but there's more fun in what I'm
doing now, so I moved on. You get stale if you don't do that. Who
knows what I'll be doing next."
        An idea occurred to Jim. "Would you be willing to part with
some of that classified information? Carlo and me were in the War
together. I'd like to know how it all ended. The real, undiluted
truth. If there is something like that. Otherwise give me
anything that comes close."
    Shades nodded, lost in thought for a moment. "I guess you
guys deserve to find out how the war was put to an end © or put
on ice, to be more exact. I suppose you know what's generally
known?"
        "I do. But that doesn't satisfy me. Tell me everything."
       "The War has never been officially declared over. Yet
there's no longer a War going on out there. But they're still
fighting. Does this make any sense?"
   "Nope. Go on."
 Shades sat back, ran a hand through his hair and was silent
for a few moments, collecting his thoughts. His hand movement had
revealed a socket©like gash above his right ear. It wasn't the
first instance Jim had seen of a Nowhere City dweller who'd had
some bio©surgery, but for one reason or other it had struck home
quite forcefully. Maybe it was because he had witnessed it in
what used to be Carlo's quarters, or because he was in some
special mood or because of what they were discussing here.
Whatever the case may be, it was a powerful telltale sign of the
winds of change sweeping across the entire Urban Area and, no
doubt, beyond.
 "The War wasn't stopped," Shades said. "It simply ground to
a halt. A certain status quo has been reached and all parties
concerned seem to be intent on consolidating their positions.
Some skirmishes and conflicts are inevitable in such a situation,
but there no longer is any overall strategy or major military
activity. Basically everybody's waiting and holding their breath
as the situation unfurls and gradually becomes clearer."
       "Are new troops still being sent?"
     "No, they seem to have put the recruitment and training
programs on ice. But they're not yet calling troopers back © at
least not officially. It's impossible to tell how many of them
defected to the other side or just left the army or were
swallowed by the forest or whatever. I think this War will end
with a whimper. It will peter out slowly, and if those men return
it won't be in triumph. They'll come scuttling back slowly,
hoping not to draw too much attention, planning to slip back into
society's waters without causing too many ripples. But somehow I
doubt we'll see them back. I think they all had a one©way ticket
to Forest Forever."
    "Has the overall situation changed drastically?"
       "From a certain viewpoint, yes. I mean, what's been
happening now isn't all that spectacular, but it may turn out to
have far©reaching repercussions. It's all tied in with what
happened over here a couple of years ago. You can't separate the
two worlds, far apart though they seem. Over here things have
been shaken up. The whole field of bio©industry used to be in the
hands of a few people who controlled everything. Their customers
were also limited to a privileged happy few. The riots and
"shopping trips" of a couple of years ago changed all that. Not
to mention that infamous invasion of a special guerrilla unit,
the same guys who imported those damn insects. We're not likely
to forget them."
       Neither will I, Jim thought.
   "The result is that bio©industry is now in the hands of
many © not only have the leading companies been broken up, but it
has fallen into a lot of Nowhere City hands as well. Some of
those hands were pretty careless or downright clumsy. Go and
stroll through one of these Green Zones for more details."
     "And how does this tie in with the War in the Afflicted
Area?"
 "Well, the bio©catalyst production appears to have been
resumed, although it wasn't brought up to its former level. Also
more clients are being served, as there is no longer a monopoly.
There seems to be a sort of unwritten agreement of how much
exactly each client can order. And some of those clients are
local ones. Don't ask me how they pay, how deals are struck. It's
hard to obtain enough solid facts to piece together a complete
picture."
      "So the New Natives are no longer left out?"
   "Well, not all of them. I don't think the place has been
turned into paradise overnight, though. You'll find sons of
bitches and thieves and con©men everywhere. What do you expect?
They're all still human. Still, things are changing both here and
there, and on the whole I'd say it's not a bad thing."
 "It's a beginning," Jim said. "A step in the right
direction." And, he added to himself, I was among those who set
it all in motion. Of course, I wasn't alone and the times were
ripe for the change I helped bringing about. Still I think I
deserve some credit here. As does Carlo and the others. And all
those who knowingly or unwittingly led us onto this path. Such as
Liberaciá¢án. Whatever happened to her, he wondered. Let's hope
she's among the ones who benefitted from the change over there.
Probably he would never find out. And, he realized, I will never
be able to claim the fame I'm entitled to. Officially, Jim
Reicher is missing in action. It left his father a broken man.
But it also left Jim himself free to pursue whatever goal he now
wished to pursue. There was such an awful lot to achieve. So the
question was not, What to do now?, but rather, What to do first?
       And of course you had to take into account the fact that the
change had only just begun. There was no way to tell where
things would go from here. There was a social evolution over
here, as well as a natural one in the Afflicted Area. The forest
was still being transformed and expanding under the influence of
its raw bio©catalysts, and God knew how it would end © if it ever
would. The forest dwellers would have to wait and see, and, if
necessary, run. The same was true for the Urban Area dwellers ©
although finding a place to run to might be more difficult for
them.
  Shades had then said they had been talking for too long
already and he really had to get back to work. So they said
goodbye and Jim left, walking straight through the armed guard
again and turning back to kick through the high©duty machine gun
he levelled at passersby at random intervals.
  Although it was high time he got back to his place, he
didn't quite feel up to it. His mind was in turmoil. He needed
time to think it all over. He felt like walking aimlessly through
the garish, holo©splashed streets of Nowhere City, bursting with
feverish activity, crawling with cyberpets and other fake life
forms, flickering with deceptively real©looking non©life forms,
brimming with noise disguised as music or vice versa, saturated
with colorful madness. As he went on his way, dodging what looked
real and passing through the rest, he let his thoughts roam
freely. Hope and despair, so close together here. Hope for a
bright future amid bleakness and poverty in the Area's outer
rings.
 Take Cynthia Raythan's case for example. Now she was typical
for what could be achieved however humble your starting point
was. It took character and determination © and a whole lot of
luck. You also had to be in the right place at the right moment.
Running into the right people when it mattered tended to help
too. The girl used to be this would©be artist puttering about in
her tiny little room with everyone believing she was going
nowhere fast and bound to fail. But she had just kept going,
honing her talents to perfection, climbing higher and higher,
finally leaving her tiny little room behind and eagerly reaching
out for bigger and better things. Crawling yet a few rungs higher
up the ladder hadn't been sufficient for her, though. That wasn't
what she was out to get. It was merely a stepping stone towards
her ultimate goal. So she had toiled onwards, had left that stage
behind as well, had messed up her bosses' brains in the process,
and now here she was, still on her way to what she felt was her
share. Who knew where she would end up? And who knew where he
would end up if only he went about his business as she had been
doing? This was an interesting avenue of thought he'd like to
explore further. But right now something else had caught his
attention.
     He had barely realized how quiet it had become all at once.
He stopped dead in his tracks, observed his surroundings. He was
wrong. It hadn't quieted down. He must have been walking for
longer than he had realized, and had simply ended up in an
abandoned neighborhood. Up ahead there had to be a Green Zone,
which was what everybody had run away from. Without flashy and
artsy holos to cover up the gritty reality, this was Nowhere City
at its seediest and most run©down. Slowly, step by step, he
walked down this street lined on both sides with sagging and
crumbling buildings. There was no life here. Neither real fleshªand©blood life, nor any of the fake varieties. And yet still
another life©form was on its way.
      He turned a corner and saw the aggressor. The contrast was
quite a shock, although he knew what to expect. A dense mass of
foliage and jungle vegetation taking possession of a chunk of the
city. Of course its relatively quick expansion couldn't be simply
observed, but it was evidenced by the empty ring of buildings
around it, which was constantly pushed farther back, a bufferªstate of decaying, desolate grayness. There was no stopping the
green tide. This was nature at its greediest and most resilient.
One could but flee and surrender whatever one had constructed.
 The intruder, this interlocked mass of jungle vegetation
that formed an impenetrable whole, was sparkling with its
newfound vitality and satisfied, in its collective plant mind, of
its power to expand and engulf this virgin area so far from home
it could never have reached it on its own.
     Contemplating the vegetation©smothered buildings, barely
visible under the layers of foliage and moss and vines and
tendrils, Jim thought, This forest is following me wherever I go.
There's just no escaping it. It'll keep crawling and growing and
swallowing everything in sight till this Urban Area has been
transformed into a Forest Area. And who says it'll be satisfied
then. Maybe it will consider its victory as a first step towards
worldwide supremacy. But long before that it will make life
unendurable for us. It will drive us stark raving mad, total
fuckin' nuts. One day we'll notice these curious pink mushrooms
among the vegetation, and before we realize what's going on we'll
be breathing in massive amounts of hallucinogenic spores. From
that point onwards we'll completely lose our grip on reality. He
could be standing here, as he was now, and see Liberaciá¢án emerge
from the forest and come walking up to him, smiling her inviting
smile, and he would think it was actually happening and go along
with it and let the girl lead him by the hand into oblivion.
   But for now it would be better if he'd cast away these crazy
ideas. No dark©haired girl would appear as if by miracle. He was
alone here. Very much alone even. It wasn't just Liberaciá¢án who
had disappeared from his life. As a matter of fact, about
everybody had. He had hardly any links left with his past. His
dad, his relatives. Not really gone, but they were no longer part
of his life. Old friends, from before he joined the War Force, he
doubted he would ever see again. Carlo Frianelli and his War
Force buddies had all vanished without a trace © sadly enough, in
Frianelli's case. In a sense, he had even lost himself, good ole
Jim Reicher. A total stranger called Warner now occupied his
place.
 A guy who had mysteriously appeared from nowhere, and had
started his life as a story consultant at Eyecatcher. That
company had known a meteoric rise to success, thanks to Cynthia,
that girl he'd met who had ultimately become his boss. His
success had matched the company's : the story of his life, in a
highly edited and fictionalized version, had proved to be quite a
hit. He had gone on to cook up more story ideas, and had branched
out to designing VRT outlines. His stuff seemed to work well. If
this continued, he might have a bright future after all, albeit
vastly different from the one he had always had in mind.
       My future, he thought, waking up from his reverie. Shouldn't
I be working my way towards that possibly bright future of mine
instead of losing my time here, standing at the rim of this Green
Zone, lost in futile thoughts and meaningless speculation. Well,
he corrected himself, not all that futile and meaningless. The
idea of the last humans fighting against a worldwide Green Tide
had something going for it. He'd make a note of it, toss around
the idea for some time trying to come up with a story line and a
general framework for a new VRT.
       He turned around, suddenly determined, and briskly walked
back to where he had come from. So much to do, so little time. He
really had to get back to work now. He left the Green Zone and
the moat of empty buildings and quietness behind without looking
back. Presently he found himself in familiar territory. A
malfunctioning cyberpet doggedly tried to drive its mechanical
head into a wall. Peddlers tried to get his attention, desperate
for a sale. A booming noise slowly grew more and more audible,
possibly another street band presenting their brand of
creativity. A handful of children were playing a game, shouting
and shrieking in shrill voices. They tried to jump through a
burning man as many times as possible before the holo had gone
through its cycle. He walked around the children in a wide arc,
and kept going hurriedly. No time to play games for him now. He
had a lot to do. With renewed eagerness and drive, he rushed
onwards.
own, wherever
he's fled to. That's too bad for you, though. It means you're not
likely to track him down, either. You'll have to live with that.
It's the way of the world. Be bottle left now,
and a few wafers. Enough for today, perhaps, but we'd better not
wait till we run out of supplies before we try to get hold of
some more. I'll go and try where I found this yesterday. Maybe
you can go down to that service station, just in case they have
something to offer by now. You never know. This isn't the time to
pass up a chance."
     "You're right," he admitted. "Let's go." It took him some
effort to sound more enthusiastic than he felt. As he walked, he
noticed with mounting disgust that many people had relieved
themselves between the rows of cars, and the rain hadn't washed
it all away. He had to walk carefully to avoid the faeces, as
well as the clumps of debris now cluttering the relatively narrow
aisles between the cars and trucks.
    Lots of people were still asleep in their cars. As Robert
appeared from behind a row of trucks he suddenly noticed a column
of black smoke billowing up from the service station. A small
crowd had gathered nearby, watching and talking. He stopped dead
in his tracks, disbelief and incomprehension freezing him. As it
started to dawn on him what must have happened he shook off his
paralysis and ran towards the group of men and women. He
recognized one of them, the man he had met yesterday who was
going to attend a conference.
    "What happened here?" he asked nobody in particular. "Was it
an accident? An explosion?"
    "I don't think so," the conference man said, smiling and
nodding as if to indicate he had recognized Robert as well. "Go
and take a closer look. You'll see."
   Robert didn't have to go up to the station to see what had
happened. It turned out most of the complex had been destroyed.
Part of it had been set on fire. This had clearly been no
accident. A massive act of violence had caused this. But who was
responsible for this senseless destruction, this display of sheer
madness, this ominous slip back into barbarism?
        "This is so typical," the conference man said from behind
Robert's back. "Ever so typical. I'm not a sociologist or
anything, but I have this theory. There are behavior patterns
emerging here. I think I can see the underlying motivations for
all this, which must at fisrt sight appear like pure madness. By
the way, allow me to introduce myself. I'm Harrold Rothery. I
believe we've met before, yesterday?"
  "Robert Mayers," Robert said, shaking the other man's hand.
"We did indeed meet very briefly. Weren't you supposed to attend
a conference? I seem to recall..."
     "I was indeed. But I'm afraid I won't make it to that
conference. It's no longer relevant. What has happened here is my
main focus of interest now. I mean, not so much the act itself,
but rather what drove people to commit it."
    "I see," Robert said, glad to have found an educated person
to engage in meaningful conversation with. "So what happened
here?"
       "This is absolutely fascinating, my friend. Right here we
seem to be having a situation in which tension builds up until it
reaches critical mass, and then this tension is sublimated as
aggression and violence. The isolation we're now living in only
intensifies this process. People are growing restless and
impatient, their anger and frustration grow uncontrollable and
end up being directed against specific targets. This service
station, for instance, is a typical such target. People tended to
view it as a haven, a source of supplies, the only place in the
area to offer sanitary facilities, an oasis in a desert of
despair and distress. When suddenly they find themselves firmly
locked out of this haven, people promptly react by annihilating
it. I don't think it was a conscious, deliberate effort. It was
rather an action taken on impulse, by people blinded by raging
fury, people who were beyond reasoning. I suppose the same thing
will happen to other such targets."
    "Uh huh. So what can we expect next?"
  "There's no way to be sure, but I think this won't be the
last act of senseless destruction we've seen here. I can only see
this situation deteriorate further, unless of course the cause of
the problem is removed."
       "We're not all raving madmen," Robert countered.
       "Of course we're not," Harrold admitted. "But let me put it
this way : there's enough of us here who are. I'm in perfect
control of myself, as I'm sure you are. I realize very well that
I missed an important conference that would have been of great
importance to my career. But I also know that, whatever I do, I
have no chance to get there in time. It's too late. However
unfortunate it may be, I know I'd better accept the situation as
it is. And so should you. I'm sure your forced stay here has
serious consequences for your career as well."
 "Absolutely," Robert admitted. "I hate to think what all
this will mean for my office. And not just for me personally. Who
knows how many of our people are being held up somewhere. There's
no way to find out. Maybe I'm the only one and they can carry on
without me. On the other hand they may be faced with major
absences and be close to bankruptcy by now. Who can tell?"
     "I suppose your work is vital for your office?"
        "Well, I do occupy a top level function. One way or
another, this situation is really catastrophical for my employer,
believe me. We're losing vast amounts of money here. Who knows
how much time it will take to recover from this loss? Besides,
I'm losing my time here. Yesterday was so empty. We spent most of
the time sitting in our car, waiting, watching nothing in
particular. The contrast with my active life is really painfully
sharp. My function is a commercial one. That has always attracted
me. I can't get any satisfaction from a desk job, I have little
patience with paperwork. I want to meet people, I like to be in
the heat of the action, I love the rush of success like a wave
washing all over me instead of quietly studying reports, sitting
behind a desk, leafing through stacks of paper, with the humming
of the air©conditioning as the only background noise. I'm sure
you can understand what a letdown this situation is to me. Add to
that the fact that we're powerless to do anything about it. We
can only sit back and watch. And bide our time until it's all
over."
 The two men started to walk back, silently, thinking about
what they had seen and what had been said. Behind them the small
crowd fell apart as people made for their cars too. There was
nothing for them here to do anymore.
   "Look," Harrold said suddenly, pulling him from his musings.
"This is what I meant. I don't think this bodes well for the
future."
       It was a bright red Mercedes which had attracted Harrold's
attention. It was dented in several places, and its windshield
was broken. Its owners were nowhere in sight. As the two men came
up close to it, they saw one of the side windows had been
completely shattered. Robert shook his head, disgusted.
        "What could have happened here," he murmured, still finding
it hard to believe what he was seeing.
 "We can only speculate," Harrold said. "Suppose there was an
argument and one driver chose to seek refuge in his car."
      "A question of food and drinks, perhaps?"
      "That's a logical assumption. Suppose he had some supplies
stacked away and refused to sell or give some of it to people who
badly needed it, say for their children. I can imagine a
situation where a fight ensues, and the car is broken into to get
at the supplies."
      "That would explain why the car is empty."
     "True enough, but of course there's a dozen other
explanations possible. Still, it's very much a fact that©"
     "Oh my God," Robert interrupted the other man, as he
suddenly remembered his wife had gone out to buy some food and
water. If only she hadn't run into trouble. Maybe it would be
safer from now on to go together. A woman alone didn't stand a
chance against a group of crazed aggressors.
   "If you'll excuse me," he said to Harrold. "I'm worried
about my wife. I really have to go and see if she is all right."
      Robert hurried off. To his relief he found Miranda sitting
in their car, a supply of chocolate wafers and some bottles of
water at her feet.
     "Are you okay, darling?" he asked, still panting, as he got
into the car. "I've been worried. Tell me."
    "What's wrong?" she asked, incomprehending. "There was a
slight incident, but everything turned out all right. I©©"
     "You were attacked?" he said, his voice rising in pitch.
       "This woman kept saying I bought too much, and if I was
allowed to do so there would be problems for all of us, and it
just wasn't fair and that sort of thing. She even tried to keep
me from leaving. Look at my coat. See?" She showed him her coat,
the right sleeve of which had been torn.
       "That's it," Robert said, clenching his fists. "Next time
I'll go with you. We just can't take any chances. And we'd better
stack our supplies away where passersby can't see them. It's way
too dangerous."
        "Robert!" She frowned, failing to understand his unusually
emotional response to what had happened. "Aren't you getting a
little paranoid there? What's gotten into you, dear?"
  "Listen," he said, and told her about the two incidents he
had seen and what he thought it meant for them. "I can only see
this getting worse," he added, "so we'd better be prepared. I
wouldn't take this too lightly, darling. I'm afraid the worst is
yet to come."
  She shook her head. "I still think you're overdoing it,
Robert. But if it makes you feel better, we can go together from
now on. And I'll put all this stuff somewhere out of sight."
 "Fine," he said. "That should do the job. At least for now.
I hate to think what will come next. And what we'll have to do
about it." They sat in silence for a while. Every now and then
Miranda checked to see if the pent©up tension and grimness were
fading from his face. They weren't.

Ã **Ã4

  "My parents will be terribly worried," Miranda said. "And
all the rest of them. Our friends, everybody we know." She pushed
a knitted, unruly lock of hair out of her eyes. Her hair had
dried at last, but her hairdo was ruined beyond repair.
        "I suppose they can guess where we are. And who knows where
they are? Do you think we're the only ones who happen to be stuck
out here?" He found he was trying too hard to sound reassuring.
	"I seriously doubt it. But it's driving me mad all the same,
Robert. It's not just the fact that we're stuck here, but also
this being isolated from the rest of the world. We're cut off
from all sources of information. What's happening out there? Will
all this be over soon? What's happened to our house? Have
burglars taken advantage of all these empty houses and apartments
and pillaged everything within sight? Are the cities on fire? Is
there widespread rioting, blood and anarchy in the streets, chaos
all over the country? Anything may have happened!"
     "For our own sake we'll have to assume everything will be
all right. The police will see to that. Or in the worst possible
case, the army."
       "If they're not on strike as well, that is." Her voice was
rising in pitch.
     "That's just wild speculation on your part, Miranda."
  "The police don't seem to be too active over here."
    "Well they can't be everywhere. And maybe they haven't been
notified of the situation over here. I really don't think there's
any reason for panic."
 "But how can we be sure about that?"
   "I have to admit that we can't. But I'm sure of one thing :
driving ourselves nuts won't get us anywhere. So we'll have to
stay put and make the best of it. One way or another this mess
will eventually be solved. There's no doubt about that. Until
then we'll just have to cope with whatever we're faced with."
  "I wish I was as sure about all that as you seem to be. I
must say that I haven't seen too many signs today telling us that
we're close to a solution of this problem."
    Robert merely shook his head and banged his hands on the
steering wheel. Miranda was right, of course. Today had begun
peacefully enough. Watching the sky turn into increasingly
lighter shades of grey, they had eaten their meager breakfast and
left the car to stretch their legs and inhale some fresh morning
air. The road was shrouded in silence : most people were still
asleep in their cars and trucks, the few who were awake didn't
produce any noise. Not one single engine or other machine©made
sound could be heard. The quietness was unnatural for this type
of environment which was supposed to buzz with metallic
activity. The air should be filled with the sound of revved up
engines and irritated horns, swirls of exhaust should cover the
scene with a smothering pall of smog. The sight of the roadscape
with its endless rows of immobilized cars and its dirt©strewn
aisles reminded Robert of a scene from a movie he had seen a
number of years ago, about a man trapped in a world frozen in
time. Finding himself now in a position similar to that movie's
protagonist filled him with a curious blend of unease and
hopelessness.
  As people started to rise from their sleep and were leaving
their vehicles, Miranda suggested they went to buy food as
quickly as possible, before it would get too crowded. This time
they went together, as they had promised to do from this point
onwards. They wound their way between the cars until they
reached the place where she had bought her supply of wafers the
days before.
   "Oh my God," she exclaimed as she saw the van.
 "So that was the one," Robert said, a statement rather than
a question. He walked around it, studying it carefully from all
angles. Miranda had covered her eyes, unable to look anymore, and
muttered something to herself, too quietly for him to understand.
      The van was empty. Its driver was nowhere in sight. Its
supplies had either been sold or taken away © whatever the case
may be, they would have to look elsewhere for food from now on.
But it wasn't the sudden lack of supplies that had struck Miranda
so forcefully. It had been the shattered windows, the doors that
had been forced open, the smashed headlamps. There was nothing
left now but a battered, empty hulk. Robert wondered for what
reason the damage had been inflicted. Had there been a fight to
get at the last supplies? Or had frustrated buyers, who had
arrived on the scene when the last supplies had already been
sold, sublimated their disappointment into unreasoning violence?
Of course it didn't really matter. What did matter was that they
would now have to find another source of supplies.
   "Come on," he said to his wife, "we'd better hurry. There's
no point in staying around here anymore. I would say we've seen
enough." Miranda merely nodded, and trailed behind him as he
trudged off. More and more people were on the move now, probably
all looking for food and water.
        Some five minutes later they reached what clearly had to be
most of these people's destination. Up ahead he could see a line
of trucks, embedded between strings of cars. As the road was
gently sloping down here, they had a perfect view of what was
going on. A number of people, probably the truck drivers
themselves, were standing on top of their vehicles, shouting
messages or instructions at one another. From this distance he
could not understand any of it. The men were armed with jacks,
wrenches and various car parts that could serve as weapons. All
around the trucks, partly hidden between the cars, a dozen of men
were waiting, talking among themselves, and also armed with
makeshift weapons.
     Miranda edged closer to him, took his hand in hers, stared
him incredulously in the eyes.
 "Robert?"
      He hugged her, caressed her hair. "I'm afraid this is
exactly what you think it is, darling." More and more people
arrived, like spectators piously gathering to observe a religious
ceremony. They didn't have to wait a long time for the ritual to
begin. One man, no doubt the leader of the pack, emitted a high
shriek and thrust out his monkey wrench, and his followers
darted from between the cars and stormed the trucks. Robert
assumed the vehicles contained food, and their drivers had so far
refused to part with their supplies, whatever their motivation
might be. Did they really think the situation would soon be back
to normal and they deemed it therefore advisable not to surrender
or even sell their wares? Or, another possibility dawned on him,
chillingly: these people have grasped how serious and hopeless
the situation really is and want to keep these vital supplies to
themselves, giving priority to long©term survival plans instead
of a quick but ultimately useless profit now. And the other
group, evidently, wanted to lay hands on these supplies, equally
vital to them for exactly the same reasons.
    Miranda had turned away her face as soon as the onslaught
had begun. Children were starting to cry, or ran off to take
shelter from this madness they failed to understand. Torn between
disgust and fascination, Robert watched as the truck drivers
hacked and slashed with their improvised but apparently effective
weapons. The attackers had clearly underestimated their
opponents: maybe they were weakened by a few days of hunger, or
perhaps they were simply too poorly trained and inexperienced for
this kind of action. Robert saw how one of them was hit on the
head with a monkey wrench and sank onto his knees, blood seeping
from a wide gash running from his forehead to his temple. Two of
his friends tried to retrieve the injured man, but the truck
drivers didn't allow them to do so. The attackers retreated to
reassess their strategy, and discussed the problems at hand with
frantic gestures. The injured man soon collapsed into a shivering
heap, the pool of blood around him widening, staining his
clothes.
       A light rain began to fall. The crowd of onlookers remained
remarkably silent and unmoved as the attackers launched their
second assault. This time it seemed as if they would be more
successful : the windshield of the first truck was shattered and
one of the men managed to climb into the cabin. The truckers'
leader shouted some new instructions, and some of his guys jumped
onto the tarmac and concentrated their efforts on just two of the
attackers. Both of them quickly fell prey to the ferocity of
their assailants. A shock went through the gathered crowd, hoarse
shouts and cries could be heard as the two victims were
mercilessly clubbed and kicked to death. For a moment it seemed
as if this dismal climax signalled the end of this nauseating
display of aggression, especially since the crowd had now
ruptured its silence and was giving vent to its feelings of
horror and disgust.
    But their shouts seemed merely to incite the truckers to
more mindless violence. Now all of them, in perfectly executed
unison, converged on their enemies, determined to finish their
unsavory job. As the remaining attackers finally understood they
didn't stand a chance against this well©organized lot, they fled
into the crowd of onlookers. For the man who had managed to
clamber inside the cabin of one of the trucks it was too late. As
he desperately tried to escape he was caught and met the same
fate as his less fortunate colleagues.
 Still the truckers were of the opinion they had not yet
stated clearly enough that the stretch of road occupied by their
trucks was their territory and that they were adamant about
protecting it against any invader. As the rain started pouring
down, as if to indicate that the weather was on their side, the
truckers followed their fleeing enemies into the crowd, wildly
whipping and sweeping about their weapons at targets seemingly
chosen at random, vehicles as well as innocent bystanders. The
crowd panicked, and was dispersed in a matter of seconds. People
fled, bumping into each other, crushing one another against cars,
trampling underfoot those who had fallen in the melee. Some tried
to take shelter in the cars they passed, but the doors remained
firmly locked.
 "We'd better go," Robert said to Miranda, still relatively
safe from their distance. "Who knows where they'll follow those
poor devils."
  "And we're getting soaking wet," she replied. All the way
back they ran, trying to avoid other people who were seeking
refuge from both the torrential rain and the violent madmen. No
more shouting or crying could be heard. The only sound was that
of the rain splashing down on the car roofs they passed. As they
finally got back to their own car, they were wet through. Robert
doubted the rain would also wash away the impressions of what
they had just witnessed.
       It took a few hours for the rain to slacken. It would take
their shock more time to wear off, and hunger was becoming a
nagging presence. They hadn't said all that much, had mostly
limited themselves to staring through the side windows. The
windshield was by now too dirt©smeared to allow a clear vision of
what lay ahead. As there was little to see Robert didn't feel
tempted to go out and wipe off the grimy film obscuring their
view.
  They were finally torn from their reverie by a gentle
rapping on the window at Robert's side. It was Harrold Rothery,
the man he had met on a few occasions already. Robert allowed him
to get into the backseat of their car, eager to hear what he had
to say. If Harrold had gone to the trouble of locating their car
to get in touch with them, the news was bound to be important.
       "Robert, excuse me for disturbing your privacy and barging
in like this, but we have serious matters to discuss. I don't
quite know how to begin." He ran a hand through his hair, leaned
back in his seat, groping for words.
   "I think I know what you came to talk to us about," Robert
said. "Did you see what happened earlier today, Harrold?"
      "No, but I've heard about it. And I've been thinking,
Robert. We'll have to organize ourselves too. There's just no
other way. You've seen what happened out there : an individual
would be totally unable to defend himself or even to mount an
action. Soon individuals will be forced out of the picture here.
Listen." He leaned forward, took Robert by the arm.
    "Do you have something in mind?"
       "As a matter of fact I have. I've been talking to several
people, exchanging viewpoints and insights and ideas. We're about
to form our own group. And you and your wife are welcome too.
Actually, I would urge you to join us. We can use you. And what
can you do on your own, without food, without protection, without
anything? Do you realize what you would be up against? Imagine
both of you, facing powerful, armed groups out to get whatever it
is you have that might be of interest to them. Food or clothes,
or your car. Or, come to think of it, your wife! Robert! Be
reasonable!" Harrold now held his arm in a painfully tight grip,
as if that would render his arguments more convincing.
 "You do have a point there," Robert conceded. "We'll think
about your proposal. What do you say, darling?" He turned his
attention to Miranda, who had remained silent throughout their
conversation, scarcely paying attention as if they had been
discussing matters far removed from her field of interest. Now
she merely shook her head, weary of the entire situation, sick of
the position they were now being manoeuvered into, even if out of
necessity. Robert understood it was better not to insist, and
looked over his shoulder into Harrold's eyes.
  "I wouldn't think too long if I were you," the man said, his
voice now back to a normal tone. Robert nodded, took the steering
wheel firmly in his hands, as if he had just decided to drive off
and leave the traffic jam behind.
      "Count us in," he then said, barely loud enough for Harrold
to hear.
       "I knew you were a sensible person, Robert," he said,
obviously pleased. "Believe me, we don't really have a choice."
For a few moments there was silence. Then Harrold said they would
get in touch as soon as possible and left their car to go back.
Silence returned. There was little to say, and anyway Miranda
didn't seem to be in the mood for talking.
     Later that afternoon they saw the first of the trekkers, as
they were to call them. They stared at the three figures,
carrying about everything they possessed wrapped in blankets or
stuffed into bags, and wondered what drove these people to
continue their journey on foot. Were they simply tired of the
endless waiting? Were they perhaps convinced they could cover
the distance separating them from the next exit leading to a city
relatively nearby? As far as he knew, there wasn't one such exit
within reasonable walking distance. Still, these people had to
have a reason to leave everything behind. Suppose this trek
hadn't actually been a deliberate choice of theirs? Suppose they
had been chased away by armed groups like the one they had seen
in action, hungry and desparate and ready to take whatever they
needed? Maybe their car had been destroyed, or it had been taken
over by a group of crazed aggressors? On the other hand, they
might well be the survivors of such a group who had lost a battle
and had managed to avoid certain death by running off. But
whatever the case might be, a few questions lingered in Robert's
mind. What could these people possibly expect up ahead the road?
How would they spend their nights? How would they support
themselves? What was the ultimate goal of this trek?
   They saw more trekkers before it grew too dark to see
anything. The nights on the road were shrouded in total
darkness.

Ã **Ã5

    The decision to opt for drastic measures had been taken when
they had found their car occupied by complete strangers, who
showed no signs of any willingness to return it to its rightful
owners. They were on their way back from a short trip to
Harrold's group, which still had a reasonable supply of food, if
rapidly dwindling, they were as members entitled to share. They
had rushed back to Harrold and had explained the situation. It
had subsequently been discussed with all the group members. They
had agreed that the time had come to act forcefully, in their own
interest, appalling as the idea might have appeared to them in
earlier days, now sadly gone by.
       There were several factors to be taken into account.
Firstly, there was an overall rise in violence and crime, and
there was no indication whatsoever that this was a temporary
phenomenon. If they weren't ready and willing to fight against
the tide, they would be washed away. It was as simple as that.
 Secondly, there was the fact that their first forays, as a
group, to find food and water had yielded very little. The main
reason was of course that there wasn't all that much to hunt for
on this particular stretch of road. Another reason was that a
steadily growing number of people organised themselves into clans
with the same intentions as theirs, and all defended boldly
whatever meager supplies and equipment they possessed.
 Thirdly, there was the fact that they noticed an increasing
number of trekkers. They rarely saw any individual trekkers; most
of them were trekking in groups, or clans as they preferred to
present themselves. They all understood this was more than a
trend. It was evidently becoming a necessity. Staying wherever
you were had become pointless. One had to move, explore new
stretches of road, rise to new challenges. Nobody knew whether
things would be better up ahead the road, but they certainly
couldn't be a lot worse than here. "The time has come," Harrold
had told them, "to leave sedentary life behind, and start a new
nomadic one. We're about to enter the age of life©on©the©road. In
a certain sense this is a backward evolution, but at this point
it seems to be the only workable solution. I would say this is
definitely the thing to do for us."
    So off they had gone, determined and hopeful. Theirs was a
small but tightly©knit clan, certainly able to stand its ground.
Its nucleus consisted of Harrold Rothery, a bank employee called
Matthew Rutherford, an accountant called Neil Parker, an
architect called Geoff Archer, and of course Robert himself.
Besides these adults the clan also included Miranda and a few
other wives and some children in their late teens. No member of
the group had any small children with them, aged people or pets.
Harrold had insisted upon these membership conditions. Some
people, unfortunately, had a wife and children at home, or
possibly caught in another jam elsewhere.
      They had scarcely started their trek as they passed the line
of trucks where Robert and his wife had witnessed the first of
the clan clashes, a mere few days ago. The trucks had by now been
reduced to empty, burned©out hulks. The truckers were nowhere in
sight. Probably they had gone off on their own trek, supposing
they had survived the confrontation which had led to the burning
of the trucks. As they passed the charred carcasses, Robert noted
that they were a fitting symbol for the evolution that was now
beginning to unfold.
   To their relief, the start of their journey turned out to be
promising. After having walked for fifteen minutes or so, they
noticed that the vehicles up ahead the next stretch of road had
been totally rearranged. Cars had been moved to the sides to
create an open ring around a large van. Armed guards were mounted
all over the area, and at first they thought that this particular
clan had large supplies they were defending against interested
parties. That conclusion turned out to be wrong, as they
discovered by simply watching what was going on. They quickly
understood that interested parties were quite welcome, unless
they were out to steal the supplies. The armed guards were only
there to see to it that everything ran as had been arranged. The
clan owning the van and its supplies were actually selling their
stuff, mostly canned food and drinks. Buyers had to line up, and
were allowed into the van one by one to conduct business. Only
one representative per clan was admitted, and accompanied by two
armed guards. Once the deal had been struck and the supplies had
changed hands, the clan in question was asked to move on, so as
not to disturb the proper order of things or clutter the space
required for supervision.
      Harrold was appointed as their representative, and while he
was waiting for his turn the rest of their clan stood a short
distance away, silently watching the proceedings. "It makes sense
to me, in a bizarre kind of way," Robert said after a while to
Miranda. "As no outside solution for our problems was
forthcoming, we had to come up with a solution of our own. I
think that's exactly what these people are doing. I'm not sure
how they're doing it or if this idea can have any long©term
success, but at least it clearly shows that we're not beyond
hope out here. This should at least restore our hope in ourselves
and our abilities."
    "But where do they get their supplies?" she asked. "How will
we pay them? We have a very limited amount of money with us, and
once we'll have spent it..." She let her voice trail off, making
a vague gesture.
       "I suppose that idea will have occurred to Harrold as well.
No doubt he'll return with supplies as well as the answers to our
questions."
    When Harrold returned at last, he carried an armsload of
supplies, but he had very little to offer in the way of answers.
He had of course been anxious to find out where these people got
their supplies from, and had indeed asked them that question.
They had been willing enough to provide the answer © but these
people demanded payment for anything they could sell, and that
included information. Harrold had preferred to save their money
for more urgent needs, the answers to their questions not being
all that vital. They had accepted to offer one explanation free
of charge, though : in anticipation of Harrold's next question,
they had told him that money wasn't the only kind of payment they
accepted. They all realized that everybody would soon run out of
banknotes and that money would eventually lose its value,
relative as it had always been. To Harrold's question what else
they accepted, they had simply stated, "You'll find out what has
value and what hasn't. And if you don't, it won't matter." That
had ended their conversation. Harrold had been asked to make room
for the next customer in line, and his clan was urged to move on.
Loitering was strictly forbidden.
      So they walked on for another ten minutes, then sat down on
the ground to enjoy their first decent meal in days, the first
meal they had bought on the road, their first transaction in this
new road economy which seemed to be coming into existence. Any
rosy©colored ideas that might have nestled into their minds about
their future were quickly dispelled by an attack they had to ward
off by a group of three men out to grab their supplies. As they
largely outnumbered the trio this turned out to be fairly easy,
but they were now very much aware of the fact that they would
have to be constantly on their guard to protect what was theirs.
Miranda wondered what the threesome's motivation might have been.
"Maybe they don't have any money left and have nothing else to
buy food with," Matthew offered.
       Robert chose to disagree. "Every economy has its criminal
elements," he stated. "Each society has a certain percentage of
people who turn to crime and violence instead of following the
proper procedures. I don't see why we would be different in that
respect." Most other clan members didn't accept this view of his,
but he was sure that time would prove him right. Harrold reminded
them that there were more pressing concerns to attend to than
Robert's abstract theorizing. They had to agree on a course of
action for the rest of the day : what distance to cover before
taking rest, how and where to spend the night, how to protect
their precious supplies. They all realized their life©on©the©road
had only just begun.

Ã **Ã6

 Robert awoke, yawned, tried to stretch his arms within the
narrow confines of the Pontiac's passenger's seat. The others
were still sound asleep, apart from Geoff who had guard duty and
was sitting rather uncomfortably on the hood outside, balancing
an exhaust pipe in one hand. As he noticed Robert was awake, he
made the thumbs©up sign. So there had been no incidents this
night.
 He rolled down the window, and the morning cold bit into his
face. A grey dawn greeted him. All was quiet. Lone figures could
be seen perched atop cars, clan members with guard duty who were
keeping an eye on everything, as Geoff was now doing for their
own clan. Robert closed his eyes again for a few moments,
allowing his thoughts to roam freely before tackling today's
activities. Like most clans who were now on the move, they used
the empty cars to spend the night. Most cars were deserted
anyway, left behind by their owners, so they felt they might as
well take advantage of them. Depending on the number of clan
members, one or more vehicles were required. Robert's clan had
opted this time for three rather large cars, had pushed them
closer to one another to render guard duty easier and more
efficient and thereby increase their safety. Guard duty was
performed in shifts. While the cars were being prepared for the
night (cleaning, if necessary, stocking their supplies,
rearranging the interior), the kids checked them for parts and
items that could serve as payment. They had virtually run out of
money by now, and were trying out a barter system. By observing
what other clans did, as well as applying the time©honored trial
and error method, they were gradually discovering what worked and
what didn't. Still Robert felt they were often groping in the
dark. There had to be a more efficient way to solve the problem
of supporting the clan. They agreed to discuss the issue at
length today, at the first opportunity to present itself.
      Judging from the groans and stirrings coming from behind
him, the others were now waking up as well. As he opened his
eyes again he saw Neil Parker clamber out of the car next to
theirs, a somewhat damaged Buick, stretch his arms and legs, and
lean closer to him. He said, "It's my turn this morning, fellas,
in case you forgot. And this Pontiac here seems most suitable for
the job. So come on, get out. I'm pretty much impatient and the
rest of us don't have a lot of time to lose either. Out, out." He
hammered a few times on the car roof, so as to lend more weight
to his demand. Robert and the others got out of the car.
       A few moments later Neil and his wife had taken positions on
the spacious back seat and were making love, and quite
passionately so judging from the sounds coming from the Pontiac.
They all pretended not to notice what was going on. It was the
only way to preserve a semblance of privacy, and apart from that,
there seemed to be no other way to allow couples to have
intercourse in a safe way. Allowing them to retreat to an empty
car further away would render them too vulnerable to attacks. So
intercourse had to be conducted where safety could be assured,
and at a moment of the day when the clan's regular activities
wouldn't be disturbed. So they had installed another shift system
and a set of rules. At least it left the clan operable, which was
what counted. By the time their supplies had been inventoried and
today's breakfast portions had been allotted to each member,
Parker and his wife had finished their activities and joined the
others for their meal. "I need more calories than you," Parker
said between bites, sniggering in a childlike way. "If only you
knew how much energy I've spent already." Nobody bothered to
comment. Nobody did so much as smile. Judging from mrs. Parker's
dour expression and cold stare, this was a wise decision.
      As soon as they had finished their meal they went on, slowly
and carefully picking their way between the cars and trucks. Some
of these were occupied by other clans, or perhaps (highly
unlikely as it appeared to them) the original owners who still
hadn't decided to begin their trek. Most clans simply allowed
them to pass on, as long as they did so quickly and without
causing trouble. For some reason, certain clans refused any
intrusion of what they considered their territory, and in those
cases they had to make a detour to avoid those clans' defensive
actions. It struck Robert how big some clans were. They could
occupy up to a dozen cars and vans, all arranged on the road in
such a way as to maximize their safety. He wondered if it was
worth the trouble, knowing that clans didn't stay anywhere for a
long period of time, merely needing a place to rest before they
resumed their trek.
    They soon found out how the system worked as they stopped
short at the border of yet another clan territory, marked by two
vans effectively blocking every passageway. A man appeared from
behind these, red bandannas and scarves wrapped around his head,
waist and wrists, and a Mercedes star dangling from his neck,
obviously his clan's insignia. Most clans had adopted them to
stress their group's identity and as a warning sign to keep
obtrusive passersby at a safe distance. "That's all of you?" the
man asked, brandishing a fire extinguisher, a dreaded weapon.
"Thinking of a resting place for a couple days? This one is up
for sale. We're leaving as soon as the deal is struck. Any
offers?"
       Harrold, who had gradually taken on the leadership of their
clan, stepped forward to discuss the sale. So that's how it
works, Robert thought. These encampments are continuously sold
and passed on from one clan to another. It made sense, if you
could grasp the logic of the road. Harrold came back, said they
couldn't afford this spot, interesting as it might have been.
  "I have this feeling," Parker said as they continued on
their way, "that we're not quite strong enough to compete with
the big boys here. Our position in the road economy is just too
weak. We'll have to do something about it."
    "Do I hear a voice of protest?" Harrold asked, snorting. He
very much took his leadership for granted, and didn't like any
signs of protest, however mildly put. Parker excused himself. The
other men exchanged worried glances. "My wife isn't feeling too
well," Parker suddenly added, as if this was the key to the
problem. To everyone's bafflement Parker's son Nigel offered some
of his views too, in a way blunt enough to shock Harrold to the
marrow of his bones.
   "Who gives you the right to order us around anyway? What
makes you think you're better than us? You're just a..," he
hesitated, considering the havoc his words might wreak, then
decided to utter them against his better judgment, "a boring old
fart and we can't put up with you any longer."
 They all halted dead in their tracks, paralyzed at the
thought of the counter©attack that would now inevitably be
launched. They needn't have feared. Maybe their leader realized
he was dealing with teenagers, notoriously rebellious by nature.
"We?" Harrold asked, one eyebrow raised, seemingly in perfect
control of himself, but probably boiling with rage underneath his
outward appearance of calm.
    "Me and Jim," Nigel answered, indicating Geoff's son who
hadn't said a word up to now. By taking position right behind his
friend, the boy made clear whose side he was on. "We've decided
to leave this clan," Nigel continued. "The way you're going about
it you're getting nowhere. Or perhaps to hell. Send us a postcard
when you get there."
   For a moment there was silence, while Nigel and Harrold
stared each other in the eyes. Then Harrold turned around, as if
the spell had been broken, and told the clan to follow him. As
far as he was concerned, the case was closed. The incident was
over. They all understood they were not even supposed to refer to
it, however indirectly. Robert followed Harrold along with the
others. He noticed that the two boys were lagging behind, and no
doubt they would soon go their own way.
      The atmosphere didn't brighten until they ran across the
band of musicians whose joyful playing filled the air in an
invigorating way that reminded them of better days © Robert had
never been into music, but now he found it strangely enthralling,
perhaps because it contrasted so sharply with the other aspects
of life©on©the©road. The band consisted of four men and two
women, and they had improvised a stage by pushing two pickupªtrucks along one another. A black man sat behind a small drumkit,
a woman and a man were strumming guitars, one man was playing a
saxophone and a black girl was doing lead vocals, while
occasional backing vocals were supplied by the guitarists. A fair
crowd had gathered around them, all members of various clans,
judging from the wide variety of insignia. It had been some time
since they had seen people belonging to different groups
intermingle so peacefully. The power of music, Robert thought. I
had never imagined it to be this strong. But here it is, shining
out brightly for all to see. The band played three songs in a
row, took a short break, and then did three more songs, and so
on. The songs segued into each other by means of jazzy
improvisations, which crept into the melody towards the end of
one song and meandered on well into the next one. During the
pauses some people cheered and clapped their hands, and donated
all sorts of stuff to the band members. No payment was demanded,
but everybody felt morally obliged to give something in return
for this wonderful and unexpected gift. Many chose to give food
or drinks, some gave trading items.
    In the meantime Harrold and Matthew were off to buy some
more supplies at a nearby dealer's, who had clearly chosen this
spot to do business because so many people were attracted by the
music and lingered on for a while. Business had to be very good
for this clan. Strangely enough there weren't any other dealers
around. Maybe, Robert thought, this clan makes sure no one else
tries to set up a business. There was just no other plausible
explanation, and this type of preventive action was perfectly in
tune with the logic of the road. During one of the pauses between
the band's short sets, he walked up to the musicians, hoping he
could get them to talk.
        "Do you have a moment?" he asked the saxophone player. "I
have a few questions. How much?"
       The man waved away that last question. "Don't bother with
payment," he said to Robert's amazement. "We don't go for all
that. Give what you want for the music. The rest you're getting
free." As he noticed Robert's incredulous stare, he added, "Hey,
we're musicians. We don't care too much about established rules
and all that. Well?"
   "What's the idea behind this show of yours?" Robert asked.
"Playing music for everyone who happens to come along. I liked it
fine, but I'm not sure I see the point of it all."
     The man laughed, shaking his head. "We've always been a
touring band. As a matter of fact we were on tour when we got
stuck here. That's why we're together here, with all of our
equipment. We can't use the amps and the electric guitars, of
course. We're just playing our music because that's the only
thing we can do to make a living. We're doing reasonably well
here, considering the circumstances. We survive, and we're not
harmed. What more can you ask for, out here on the road?"
      "I guess that makes sense," Robert said, pondering these
people's philosophy, simple and pragmatic, but above all highly
efficient.
    "So what are you guys doing?" the man asked. "Are you with a
big clan? What line are you in? Dealing? Protection? Anything
special?"
      "We're picking up some stuff along the way and selling or
trading it. Nothing special. Somehow I don't think there's any
long©term idea behind it."
     "You really should consider doing something special,
something that sets you apart from other clans. There's just no
other way to make it on the road. Living from day to day won't
work forever. What did you do before the jam, anyway? Were you in
an office? You definitely look like the office type to me."
    My office, Robert thought. The days before the traffic jam?
Dim memories came flooding back, fleeting images of his old
active life, too fragmentary to be assembled into a clear
picture. Strange, he thought, how the daily worries and concerns
of life©on©the©road have managed to push all of my old life into
the background. That information is no longer relevant and hence
there is no need to keep it stored in the memory banks. "Let me
think," he said. "My office. Hmm."
     "I understand," the sax player said. "Most people tend to
forget the old days. Too busy surviving and thinking about what
lies ahead, I suppose. Anyway, what are you guys up to?"
       "I don't really know," Robert admitted, and added on
impulse, "Any suggestions?"
    To his amazement, again, the man nodded. "Go further down
the road," he said. "There's this giant clover©leaf junction up
ahead, where three highways intersect. There's a high
concentration of people there, a wide variety of clans all doing
their thing. That part of the road is bristling with activity and
if you guys don't find any ideas there about what to do then I'm
afraid you'll never find them."
        "Thanks," Robert said. "We'll go and take a look. Take care,
man."
  "Bye," the musician said. "Good luck. Don't let the road
swallow you."
  When he got back he noticed that Harrold and Matthew had
bought new supplies and were waiting for him to continue their
journey. They set off right away, despite repeated complaints
from mrs. Parker that she really felt too sick to continue.
Harrold ignored the remarks, and they all knew that little could
be done about sickness anyway. Robert observed the woman at
regular intervals, and she didn't seem to be in good shape
indeed.

Ã **Ã7

      A good night's sleep, in guaranteed safety, for all of them.
It had sounded too good to be true, and yet there it was, within
easy reach as long as your clan could afford the price.
        As they had reached the rim of the clover©leaf junction
area, mrs. Parker had become so ill that she could simply not go
on. They had spotted a bus, guarded by armed men. They had at
first assumed it was another supply store or some clan's
dwelling place, but then one of the guards had hollered at them,
"Need a place for your clan to spend the night? In complete
safety? No trouble, no more guard duty? This bus and our services
can be yours. Any offers?"
   They had agreed on a price, although their clan had barely
enough trading items left to pay for a night's stay including
protection. The night had been a blessing. Now the morning had
scarcely begun and things were turning sour. The two kids, Nigel
and his friend had disappeared. That was not a big surprise, but
it left a bad taste in the mouth all the same. Robert presumed
the boys had joined one of these youth©gang©type clans, where
they would probably fit right in and be allowed to make their own
decisions. This way they would be happier. Still, most adults
tended to frown upon these clans' often irresponsible activities.
      Mrs. Parker was now raving feverishly, balancing on the fine
line between consciousness and coma. It was clear they would have
to find a solution for this problem.
   And still that was not all, as Robert found out when they
were all awake and Harrold looked all his clan members in the
eyes and told them, "We've been reduced now to a handful of men
and one woman. I'm not counting mrs. Parker anymore. She's
clearly beyond help. And that one woman is yours, Robert." He
stared him coldly in the eyes. Miranda said nothing, didn't even
look up, as if this statement was of no interest whatsoever to
her.
   "So what?" Robert asked. He could feel the bad news coming.
    "You'll have to share her with us."
    "Out of the question," he stated as firmly as he could.
"That's completely unthinkable."
       "I'm afraid you're wrong, Robert." Harrold sounded menacing.
"The current situation isn't fair. You don't deserve to be
privileged."
   "Privileged? Miranda happens to be my wife. I can't see why
anybody else would feel entitled©©"
       "She's no longer your wife. Admit it. You both joined a
clan. She's the only female member. She owes her services to all
male clan members."
    "Services! Harrold, that's a barbarian idea! Do you realize
what you're saying? Have we lapsed back into the Dark Ages?
What's next? Ae we going to burn witches? Will we©©"
   "He's right," Geoff interrupted him. "Admit it, Robert.
We're not saying this out of self©interest."
   "You bet you are. You just want to go to bed with my wife
and you've found a way."
       "That's nonsense, Robert, and you know it. Why do you cling
to the obsolete notions of the old days? You know they're
meaningless on the road. New rules define the game now, and
you'll follow them if you want to survive. Look, let's settle
this dispute once and for all."
        Calmly, in perfect control of himself and with a complete
lack of emotional involvement, Harrold dropped his pants, helped
Robert's wife undress and had intercourse with her. She didn't
resist. Nobody said a word. They all observed the ritual that was
being performed, maintaining a respectful silence. Afterwards
Harrold turned to Robert again and said, "As you've been able to
witness, there was no lust or any inappropriate emotion in my
behavior. I merely took something I was entitled to as a full
member of this clan. Is that clear, Robert? Are there any more
questions you would like to ask?"
      Robert shook his head. Harrold nodded. The dispute had been
settled. They could now go on with whatever had to be dealt with
next. It came as no surprise to Robert that this next issue
turned out to be the problem of mrs. Parker. What did come as a
surprise was the way this particular problem was resolved. It was
Geoff who suggested the idea, pointing out to Harrold that
Parker's wife had little to contribute to the clan anymore. It
was difficult enough to keep the clan going as it was © in her
present condition mrs. Parker would only jeopardise their
survival.
      "You're absolutely right, Geoff," Harrold was quick to
agree, clearly pleased somebody had finally expressed an opinion
he was happy to support. "Well, what do we do about this
problem? Let me know your opinions, all of you. Apart from you,
Parker. You're too emotionally involved with this woman. You
can't possibly take an objective view, so you're excused."
     "I'm excused?" Parker asked, baffled.
  "How can we expect reason from you, unclouded by emotion?
We're talking about your wife here."
   "I'd say that's exactly why my ideas count."
   "I'm afraid you've got it wrong there. Don't make me explain
my views twice, Parker." Harrold shifted his gaze to the three
other men and Miranda. "Any suggestions? Geoff? Matthew?"
      "We'll have to leave her behind. Really, I can't see any
other solution."
       "Get rid of her. Try to get something in return for her.
Maybe she still has some value for somebody."
  "Hm. Robert?"
  "I don't believe this," Robert said. "You're out of your
mind, all of you. What's gotten into you? Has the pressure
driven you nuts or something? Do you realize what you're saying?
How can you allow yourselves to degenerate into barbarism like
this?" He noticed his voice was rising in pitch.
       "Listen, Robert." Harrold appeared to be in control of
himself, but Robert could sense the boiling rage underneath the
man's deceptively quiet appearance, ready to burst forth at any
instant. "It's about time you began to adapt to our new living
conditions. There's no reason to cling to the old ways. They're
obsolete, they serve no useful purpose here. You really ought to
shed all that ballast. You're so sentimental, so unrealistic.
Can't you see that this sentimentality of yours will only get you
into trouble?"
 "He's right, darling," Miranda said to his utter amazement.
She was the last person he had expected to join sides with
Harrold, especially after what he had done to her earlier this
morning. He stared at her in disbelief as she continued, "Don't
be so unreasonable, Robert. You'll have to admit the best we can
do is to leave mrs. Parker behind, God bless her soul. We simply
can't afford to drag her along, however much we'd like to."
    Robert shook his head, but as he was about to retort Harrold
cut him short. "Listen you two," he said, addressing both Parker
and Robert. "I won't put up with any more resistance from both of
you. I want you to pay me the proper respect a clan leader is
due. Got that?"
        "I don't remember you being elected as our leader," Parker
said, and was instantly rewarded with a punch in the face by
Harrold. "Am I making myself perfectly clear?" Harrold asked.
They all stared at Parker's face, at the blood dripping from his
nose. There was silence for a while. So that's how far we've
come, Robert thought. Our self©appointed clan leader decides and
takes care of dissidents in typical time©honored tyrant's
fashion. And, strangely enough, we seem to accept this state of
affairs, if somewhat grudgingly. As a matter of fact, it might be
wise for them to go along with it. Putting up a fight would lead
to nothing, and leaving the clan (and his wife, however much she
seemed to have changed) and trying to make it on his own would be
foolish.
       So when they finally left to continue their trek their
number had been reduced to six : the two boys had left the clan,
and one of the women had been disposed of in an elegant way, as
Harrold had put it. They had indeed received a form of payment in
return for the ill woman from the clan which owned and rented
the bus. Harrold had been immoderately pleased with this
achievement. He applauded its being "highly in the spirit of the
road, where nothing is free and can therefore be simply given
away. Only fools leave free gifts behind. Sane people on the
other hand deal with goods in a practical way. Goods are bought
or traded, their value can be examined and discussed, deals can
be struck."
    Robert could see that Parker was about to make some incisive
remarks about his wife being described as "goods", but the man
kept his thoughts to himself. If I were in his shoes I'd probably
do the same thing, he thought bitterly. Apparently we're all too
scared to question Harrold's authority, we all accept his
leadership against our better judgment. But won't this stimulate
his bent for despotism? Shouldn't Geoff, Neil, Matthew and me
start discussing plans to take over when we feel the time has
come? He would have to talk about this with his fellow clan
members at the first opportunity to present itself. Needless to
say, it was unthinkable Harrold would find out about these
intentions. Onwards they went, Robert's mind a turmoil of slowly
burgeoning ideas and nagging worries.
  The musician had been right : if this stretch of the road,
with its beehive©like activity and endless streams of people
going to and fro constantly, wouldn't spark off ideas in their
minds, there would be no hope for them. Here the road expanded
into an intricate construction of converging and diverging lanes
and flyovers. The confluence of highways was a natural place for
the road's equivalent of a commercial center to grow into
existence. All types of business were flourishing here. So were
all kinds of crime. Countless clans were staying here, for
shorter or longer periods of time. Some appeared to have taken
permanent residence. All over the area cars and trucks had been
rearranged in a remarkably orderly fashion, to allow a smoother
organisation of life in the clover©leaf area. People could move
more freely, business was easier to conduct, protection could be
guaranteed in most circumstances for those who could afford it.
The entire area looked as if it had been painstakingly designed
by specially appointed architects and choreographers with an
inclination for the bizarre. It was up to the clan now to explore
this place © and use the knowledge they would gain to their full
advantage.

Ã **Ã8

   The idea came during the cloudburst.
   As a rule they didn't mind a little rain, but they tended to
avoid getting soaked through. When rain started to pour down
seriously, most people who were away from their clan's dwelling
place took shelter in unoccupied, unclaimed cars that could be
found with a bit of luck.
      This time, however, they had waited too long. The clouds had
grown thicker and darker, and with scarcely a warning a
rainstorm burst loose that soaked them within seconds. They
darted left and right, hoping to find a spot that would serve
them as shelter, casting quick glances in all directions, but in
vain. Then all at once Harrold turned around and shouted, "Over
there!" indicating the hulk of a burned©out truck he had
spotted. The metal carcass was too far gone to hold any interest
for anybody, so it was theirs for the taking. It provided them
with a rudimentary form of shelter only. Mere moments later the
five of them were huddled under the remnants of the truck. They
weren't exactly out of the firing line of the sudden gusts of
wind and the torrents of water that came now bucketing down, but
at least they no longer bore the full brunt of the onslaught.
Robert studied the faces of the others as they waited for the
storm to take out its anger on the road and its inhabitants and
then calm back down. They stared at the curtains of water
slashing down, eyes squinting against the biting wind, shivering
with cold, strands of wet hair smeared across their foreheads,
beards dripping with icy raindrops. Miranda had pressed her body
close to his, for the first time in a long while showing some
form of affection for him. Perhaps, Robert thought, this means
all is not lost. When hardship strikes, we turn out to have some
shreds of humanity left. Life on the road hasn't turned us
completely into savages.
       The road was gently sloping down here, and water came
washing down in ever larger quantities, forming rivulets that
quickly swelled into a foaming tide, rushing past and
transforming into eddies and rapids as it met obstacles on its
way. The tide swept along all the accumulated debris and detritus
that had been scattered across the road. After the passage of
this rainstorm, the road would be cleansed. Too bad, Robert
thought, that all this precious water will flow down and be lost
forever. Unless of course, the idea struck him, with a force as
sudden as unexpected, unless we catch it in whatever comes in
handy. He sat upright, startling Miranda in the process. That's
it, he thought. We can catch more than we need and sell the rest.
We can become a clan of water gatherers and sellers. We would
fulfill a vital function here, support ourselves, perhaps develop
into an economically strong clan with a healthy amount of buying
power and the social status that goes with it. This is the idea
we've been looking for. He rose to his feet, smiled, spread his
arms wide and gratefully allowed wind and rain to beat down
freely on him.
 "What are you doing?" he heard Miranda ask, and then Harrold
joined in, shouting, "What the hell is that supposed to mean,
Robert? Get back down, you idiot! Have you completely lost your
mind? Get your ass back here with us! Robert!"
 He crouched back down with the rest of his clan, thumped
Harrold on the shoulder, who was staring him in the eyes in utter
amazement.
     "Let me explain something to you, Harrold. I've just
stumbled onto our way out of the hopeless mess we're in. You will
all be grateful for this. Mark my words, Harrold. This is the
beginning of a new era for our clan. From now on we're on our way
up."
 "The rain has washed away your brain," Harrold mumbled,
perplexed, incomprehending. "Why don't you keep your mouth shut,
Robert, before even more water gets into you." They stared into
each other's eyes for a few more moments, and as the rainstorm
showed its first signs of abating Harrold asked him, "Are you
sure you're all right?"
        "It's been a while since I've felt this good." It took
Robert some time to convince Harrold he had something important
to say. To his relief he discovered that Harrold, tyrannical as
he might have become, still had a keen mind for suggestions that
the clan might turn to its advantage. Harrold was very quick to
see the market possibilities for clean, drinkable water (or at
least as close to drinkable as possible under the present
conditions) and accepted Robert's proposal. Typically enough, as
soon as Harrold had taken that decision, he referred to the plan
as "ours", as if Robert's role had been a marginal one at best.
Robert chose not to comment on this attitude, despicable and
arrogant though he found it. This was not the time to irritate
Harrold or to question his authority. No doubt a more suitable
opportunity would present itself one day © and then Robert and
any others willing to join in ought to be sufficiently prepared
to rise to the challenge with a decent chance at success.
      Later that day, as the road's normal activities were resumed
after the storm had completely died away, Harrold's clan began
its preparations for its newfound vocation. They started
collecting car parts and all sorts of objects suitable for
catching and transporting water. For the time being they all
worked in unison, executing Harrold's every command without even
the merest thought of rebellion crossing their minds. After all,
the clan's survival and welfare were at stake. Once those goals
had been achieved, they would have ample time for less harmless
endeavors, Robert consoled himself. Frantically, they continued
their search for the tools of their trade.

Ã **Ã9

   A Charred Area, Robert thought. They had heard about them,
but this was the first time they actually crossed one. It was
totally deserted. Not one living soul could be seen between the
burned out hulks of cars and trucks which clogged this stretch of
the road.
      Too tired to continue, Miranda dropped to her knees,
sobbing. Harrold nodded, indicating they were all allowed to rest
for a while. Geoff, Matthew and Neil turned out to be so
exhausted that they were asleep within moments, curled up against
rusting car wrecks. Harrold was also taking it easy for a while,
and chose to remain silent. The man seemed to grow increasingly
taciturn with every passing day. So, Robert thought, even our
indefatigable leader can no longer work up any energy. Miranda's
sobbing died away slowly until only a labored breathing
indicated she needed more than a light rest. Robert felt tired as
well, but was not on the verge of passing out. He sat back,
closed his eyes, and allowed the caleidoscope of thoughts and
memories spinning beyond control in his mind to ease back into a
more tranquil and manageable flow.
     Their future as a water©gathering clan had looked so bright
and promising. Life in the densely populated cloverleaf area with
its bristling economic activity had seemed so invigorating. They
had finally discovered their true ambition and had worked hard at
realizing it. Robert was convinced they would have done so with
flying colors, but the outbreak of the first of the Clan Wars had
shattered their dreams. The War had not come as a total surprise
of course, but the actual outbreak had been quite sudden and they
had been forced to escape at an instant's notice.
      More and more clans had joined the cloverleaf community,
whereas few chose to leave and explore other parts of the road.
Soon the constantly swelling population rendered a normal social
and economic life impossible. Tension rose. Crime and aggression
between clans intensified. And, to their bitter disappointment
and rising apprehension, they had witnessed the appearance of
inflation, its steady growth and its eventual culmination into a
destructive phenomenon destined to bring all the clans to their
knees.
 At first they had tried to cope with the problem by
catching and selling more water, but they had quickly found out
that this method, similar to the ones used by other clans,
merely speeded up the inflation rate. Whatever they did to
generate more income, they invariably received fewer goods in
trade than the previous day. As key elements of life on the road
such as food and protection of living quarters began to grow
scarce, it became clear that the carefully balanced road economy
was heading towards disintegration.
    Theft and murder became everyday affairs. Certain clans
turned into professional criminal gangs, organizing robberies or
killings against payment. Their actions were met with yet more
extreme violence. The search for food became every clan's prime
concern. The source of the food supplies had always mystified
Robert. He was convinced that by now all the supplies stored in
trucks blocked on the road must have been exhausted. Of course he
had heard the tales sung by various travelling bards, about
stretches of road close to cities where food and all other
necessary items were bought and distributed along the rest of the
road, but he wondered if the bards were dealing with facts or
myths. Whatever the case might be, food had been growing
desperately scarce to the point where skirmishes and riots
between clans erupted almost everyday. Social and economic life
in the cloverleaf area was shaken on its very foundations and
would soon no longer be possible. As there was no solution on
hand for the problem, a full©scale all©out war had become
inevitable. Although they had all felt the cataclysm hanging in
the air, they had been taken by surprise by the outburst of the
hostilities and had managed to escape only in the nick of time.
They left behind a raging battlefield smothered in blood and
ravaged by fire.
       And now they were here, lost and lonely on a deserted
stretch of the road which bore the traces of an earlier conflict,
a Charred Area as they were referred to by the road's travelling
bards and singers who had become their only source of news and
stories © if there was still a difference.
     As soon as they had rested enough to get back on their feet,
they decided to continue their trek. There was no point in
hanging around this depressing cemetery of cremated cars and
trucks, weather©beaten carcasses whose only future was one of
continued decay until the roadscape would be reduced to rusting
particles scattered across rubbish and debris. Although they were
hungry and thirsty and barely recovered from their hasty
retreat, they left this part of the road behind them as quickly
as possible. Harrold had not yet unveiled his plans, but they
realized very well there was only one possibility open to them.
They had to travel onwards until they reached a part of the road
which could still sustain a level of social and economic activity
of a certain standard. They knew very well it would be hard to
find the equivalence of the cloverleaf community that had been
such a heart©warming experience, in many ways the highlight of
their life on the road so far.
 They quickly discovered they had been spoiled by the
cloverleaf area, a haven of orderliness and civilization when
compared with the rest of the road. Once they had left the
Charred Area behind, they reemerged on a "normal" stretch of the
road, where life turned out to be harsher than they had become
used to, less well organized, and more violent. They did not have
the feeling a Clan War was about to erupt here, though.
        It took them some time to start back up their waterªgathering trade, but at least they were a functioning unit again
with a goal in mind, and determined to achieve that goal. All the
thoughts of rebellion Robert had at one point harbored against
Harrold had been repressed these last few days, as the clan
members all seemed to have more important business on their
hands. Once they were smoothly practicing their trade again,
however, Robert's vague plans to overthrow their leader
resurfaced in his mind. He would only have to wait for the right
opportunity to turn his ideas into solid reality. The opportunity
didn't take long to present itself, and when it did it turned out
